**ADAMO, SERGIA.** “Microhistory of Translation.” In Charting the Future of Translation History, edited by GEORGES L. BASTIN and PAUL F. BANDIA, 81–100. University of Ottawa Press, 2006. https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctt1ckpfkh.8.

This chapter of the book gives a good definition of the way microhistory has changed and challenged contemporary historical thought. This chapter also shows some of the assumptions that this historian believes that microhistories take for example the assumption that the pass is alien to the present and the answer to the questions is not just out in the open. The chapter also is an example of a particular type of microhistory of the translation of history which can be used as an example of the broadness of microhistory in general. 
***
**Ginzburg, Carlo, John Tedeschi, and Anne C. Tedeschi.** “Microhistory: Two or Three Things That I Know about It.” Critical Inquiry 20, no. 1 (1993): 10–35. http://www.jstor.org/stable/1343946

This article is a good showing of all the different types of microhistories and that no one really agrees what microhistory is or what the school of thought is. This is because there is no one accepted way to conduct microhistory and that microhistory changes depending on the country the historian is from. The article also goes and explains some of the Carlo Ginzburg’s thought process in writing The Cheese and the Worms. This is because this article is written by the author and is his understanding of what microhistory is and his thoughts on microhistory. This will help because it will allow me to understand and try to see the paradigms that The Cheese and the Worms had inside and where they came from. 
***
**Lepore, Jill.** “Historians Who Love Too Much: Reflections on Microhistory and Biography.” The Journal of American History 88, no. 1 (2001): 129–44. https://doi.org/10.2307/2674921.

This article talks a little about what microhistory is in general. Talking about the fact that microhistory does not have a good definition. This is because in America no one calls or claims to write about microhistories. It then goes to show the differences between microhistory and biographies and the folly of biographies and that of microhistories. Both of these can be a good supplement to let the reader understand that a microhistory can look like a biography but it is fundamentally different than a biography and how biographies normally deal with living people and microhistorians do not typically face that same issue with having a love like relation with the person that they are writing about. 
***
**Magnusson, Sigurur Gylfi, and Istvan M. Szijarto.** What Is Microhistory?: Theory and Practice. Florence: Taylor and Francis, 2013. 

This book gives a detailed historiography of microhistory by looking at the different ways microhistory is written in Italy, Germany, and English. It also looks at getting to the to the root of microhistory. It also gives examples of famous microhistory by explaining the most well-known microhistory The Cheese and the Worms by Carlo Ginzburg and explains the benefit of microhistory. While part one of the book which is the historiography of microhistory is going to be well used part two of the book I am not as certain sense it is more of how to write a microhistory which is out of the scope of my general overview of microhistory. But part two does also give some of the issues with microhistory which will be useful for the overview. 
***
**Paul, Jesse.** 2018. “What Is Microhistory?” Social Evolution & History 17 (2): 64–82. doi:10.30884/seh/2018.02.04.

This article helps identifying some of the many different ways that microhistory can be used for answering different styles of questions being asked. The author also explains how his examples changed perceived thoughts in history.  This article also can be used as an example of a microhistory which is different that the one of “Microhistory of Translation.” that is another example of a microhistory that looks at what influenced Plato’s Republic rather than what the other essay was looking at. It also shows that the time period of research really does not matter, and light can be shed on bigger structures. 
***
**Renders, Hans, Binne De Haan, and Matti Peltonen.** “What Is Micro in Microhistory?” Essay. In Theoretical Discussions of Biography: Approaches from History, Microhistory, and Life Writing, 157–78. Leiden: Brill, 2014. 

This chapter of the book is useful for a general overview of microhistory because it gets detailed into the detail of the macro- micro connection for history while also explaining what is micro about microhistory. This will be a useful to help people who get the concept of what the core of microhistory is about. And the difference between what the micro historian is trying to do which is not writing about a village history or a biography of a peasant but how a peasant’s worldview was shaped as. This chapter also tells some of the differences between microhistory and a biography because it is one of the criticisms of microhistory that they tend to not be called microhistories.
***
**Trivellato, Francesca.** “Is There a Future for Italian Microhistory in the Age of Global History?” California Italian Studies 2, no. 1 (2011). https://doi.org/10.5070/c321009025. 

This paper talks a little bit about what Italian microhistory was responding to mainly Marxist writings and about the critique of the prevailing assumptions on how pre-industrial societies functioned. And how the global change away from Eurocentric history did not have an impact on Italian microhistory. The essay also shows how the original idea of Italian microhistory has changed when taken outside of the Italian circle and has more uses to balance global history. It also gives examples of some of the new ways that microhistory can be used to tell a story about a bigger phenomenon. The paper also show how microhistory can remove the generalization of macro-analysis. ***
**Trivellato, Francesca.** “Microstoria/Microhistoire/Microhistory.” French Politics, Culture & Society 33, no. 1 (2015): 122–34. https://www.jstor.org/stable/26378220.

This article talks about the different histories that microhistory has been called over the years. The paper also goes into the changes of how microhistory is approached in the areas where microhistory was the most prevalent and how they all differ from each other and also how they have changed in those areas. The article also sheds light on some of the reasonings for the drift between American microhistory and that of French and Italian microhistory. It also brings up one of the issues and also critics the issue of micro macro relationship. 
***
One of the ways that the sources from this class is relevant to my topic is that microhistory can be used to talk about many of the topics that we covered. You can take the example of Gender and even though the article was mainly focusing on language used and how words can change meanings. You a take that and study and write a history of how a particular word has changed its meaning and the obvious study of gender and the role of women or a particular female from the past. 

Another example how the sources are relevant is with postcolonialism and how Dipesh Chakrabarty was saying that histories of colonized areas mimic Europe and have been Eurocentric. One of the main reasons for microhistory is to be able to break away from Eurocentric history by looking at how a particular person actually lived and what that says about the society as a whole during the time and can be compiled to move colonized places history from being Eurocentric. 

More or less microhistory can be applied as a paradigm for looking at most of the readings that we have read or can be applied to studding the topic if someone wanted to research more into the historiography of a particular time. With microhistory really taking off in the late 1970s and the postmodern thought it can also be used to show the movement away from the grand narratives of the past. 
