Annotated Bibliography

Gascoigne, John. “The Expanding Historiography of British Imperialism.” The Historical Journal 49, no. 2 (2006): 577–92. http://www.jstor.org/stable/4091629. jstor.org/stable/4091629?seq=1#metadata_info_tab_contents
In this book from author and historian John Gascoigne, the history and the dissections of the British Empire is looked over and starting at what defines an empire, and going into the colonization and decolonization of different peoples and culture and what made the British Empire successful and what were its faults. In a quote from Gascoigne, he explains what an empire means in  historical and sociological terms, “Empires often mean highly heterogeneous peoples and cultures coming into close and prolonged contact and the result is inevitably some transmutation of both. Sometimes nations try to disguise from themselves the extent to which they have borrowed from those they have conquered: thus the reassuringly English name of Worchester sauce of House of Parliament sauce was given to concoctions of Indian origin. But the flavour of empires inevitably sweeps through to both sides of the colonial divide” (Gascoigne. 578). This was interesting to me because it takes the empire as a concept and looks at it closer to reveal the hidden and darker meanings behind it. 

Marshall. Peter. Archives In History. 2004. archives.history.ac.uk/history-in-focus/Empire/index.html
In this online article about the British Empire, entitled History in Focus: Empire, Professor Peter J. Marshall of King's College in London lends his observations to the British Empire and how it caused history and the ways to look at the historiography of British history to forever change. Something that I found interesting was when Professor Marshall states, “Boundaries between ‘old’ and ‘new’ interpretations of a subject are usually somewhat nebulous, existing largely in the eyes of their practitioners. So it is with imperial history. Nevertheless, in crude terms, the concerns of imperial history can be said to have traditionally focused on political or economic domination: that is, on the one hand, on military force, civil administration and systems of rule and the eventual transfer of power, and, on the other, on economic development or ‘exploitation’, the special concern of a powerful Marxist tradition of writing about imperialism” (Marshall. 2004). When empires were discussed in K-12 schooling it's usually with the understanding that one nation or group of people claimed superiority over another and that battles were wages to see who would come out on top therefore demonstrating a greater ability and power of ruling over the other, but there's an underlining aspect of looking at what an empire is, it's not just demonstrating power over another nation, it's about looking at what makes both nations what they are and understanding the root causes of one nation dominating another. 

Britannica, T. Editors of Encyclopaedia. "British Empire." Encyclopedia Britannica, October 22, 2021. https://www.britannica.com/place/British-Empire.
This online article comes from editor and writer Aakansha Gaur about the broad overview of the British empire, with a brief definition and explanation of what the British Empire was, Gaur explains, “British Empire, a worldwide system of dependencies—colonies, protectorates, and other territories—that over a span of some three centuries was brought under the sovereignty of the crown of Great Britain and the administration of the British government. The policy of granting or recognizing significant degrees of self-government by dependencies, which was favoured by the far-flung nature of the empire, led to the development by the 20th century of the notion of a “British Commonwealth,” comprising largely self-governing dependencies that acknowledged an increasingly symbolic British sovereignty. The term was embodied in statute in 1931. Today the Commonwealth includes former elements of the British Empire in a free association of sovereign states” (Gaur. 2021). It is clear that aside from Italy, and America; the UK was one of the largest dominating forces during the 17th to 19th centuries. It wasn't just the leaders or policies that made this empire as successful as it was, it was the underlying understanding of how to dominate other cultures and nations. There were many faults that befell the British, and these faults are what lead to the destruction of the empire, but it is interesting to look at what made this particular empire separate from the rest and how it survived as long as it did.

Louis, Roger W.M. The Oxford History of the British Empire: Volume IV: The Twentieth Century. United Kingdom: OUP Oxford, 1999.
It's interesting to note that the British Empire in a way, never actually fell. Despite all the pitfalls that were against them, the British government conquered them. In a book by historian Roger Louis, the British empire went through a lot, “For the British Empire no less than for Britain, the twentieth century was dominated in the first four decades by two world wars, and in much of the remaining part of the century by the Cold War” (Louis. 2).Even throughout all that, the British government continued to be a defining force of imperialism and continued to sweep across the world.

O’Brien, Patrick K. “The Costs and Benefits of British Imperialism 1846-1914.” Past & Present, no. 120 (1988): 163–200. http://www.jstor.org/stable/650926.
Even in modern times, the British Empire, and the effect it's had on the rest of the world continues to fascinate historians. In a work by author Patrick O’Brian, he explains the effects of British history on the world, “In addition British jurisdiction and political influence intruded into the affairs of five dominions containing twenty-four million citizens and including an area of 7.6 million square miles. Whether this complex institutional edifice of supranational power (representing the largest occidental empire since Rome) brought tangible gains to anything to a majority of British people is a large question, which has in recent years attracted growing attention in modern economic history” (O’Brian.163). This work is an important resource because O’Brian’s approaches to the British empire and its politics helps to understand the methods behind the governments approaches to conquering its territories. 

Pietsch, Tamson. “Rethinking the British World.” Journal of British Studies 52, no. 2 (2013): 441–63. http://www.jstor.org/stable/41999297.
By getting multiple voices together, this source helps to illustrate different points of view and how they all come together to form the bigger picture. In an article by Tamson Pietsch, it is explained how this is achieved in a historical setting, “ This article rethinks the concept of the British World by paying close attention to the voices of those who attended the 1903 Allied Colonial Universities Conference. At this meeting, delegates identified not one, but rather three different kinds of British world space. Mapped, respectively, by the ideas and emotions, by networks and exchange, and by the specific sites of empire, they pointed to the imagined, material,and local British worlds that reflected their lived experience of the globalizing connections of the period” (Pietsch. 441). These different perspectives help to redefine what the British empire was like and how it affected the people living in Britain and its surrounding territories. 

Davidson, J. W. “The History of Empire.” The Economic History Review 16, no. 1 (1946): 68–73. https://doi.org/10.2307/2590584.
The British empire had many faults and author and historian J. W. Davidson illustrates these faults and how the British government “made up” for its mistakes,“ Again, the chapter dealing with colonies where the population is mainly non-European, sometimes fail to take account of the peculiarities of social structure” (Davidson. 68).These failures ultimately were overcome and the Empire continued to spread.

KUMAR, KRISHAN. Visions of Empire: How Five Imperial Regimes Shaped the World. Princeton University Press, 2017. https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctvc773dq.
In this study by Krishan Kumar, history is looked at from a different lens and the definition of an Empire is redefined, “Antipathy to empire is not the same as indifference towards it, or its study” (Kumar. 5).What many may think defines an empire is turned on its head when looked at from different views.
