## Bibliography

**Abrams, M.H.** *The Mirror and the Lamp: Romantic Theory and the Critical Tradition.* New York: Norton, 1958.

**Baár, Monika.** “Romantic Historiography in the Service of Nation‐Building,” in *Historians and Nationalism: East-Central Europe in the Nineteenth Century*. Oxford Historical Monographs, Oxford University Press, 2010. 

This chapter of Monika Baár’s book provides a useful overview of how Romanticism and Nationalism are interrelated, as well as an introduction to the historiography of 19th century Eastern European scholars. Baár includes general information regarding continuities and discontinuities between Enlightenment thinking and Romantic thinking, and how the emotionality of the 19th century brought with it interests in the past for its own sake as well as attempts to connect with a broader audience by way of descriptive and beautiful language. Additionally, Baár discusses the importance of the shift away from history writers focusing on members of the nobility and upper classes, to utilizing the lives of the everyman and individual to incorporate and fuel the idea of national pride. She states, interestingly, that while romantic nationalistic historians often intended to write sprawling and complete national histories, they often never finished. I see this being a useful source, but it may also include information that is too specific or scholarly in some cases for an entry-level historiographical essay. 

**Bentley, Michael**. "Romanticism," in *Modern Historiography : An Introduction*. Routledge, 1999.

Similar to the chapter on Romanticism in Cheng's Historiography, this source provides good foundational information regarding the topic. Unlike Cheng's chapter which mixed components of romanticism and critical history, this focuses squarely on the fundamentals of romantic historical thought and writing. Bentley discusses concepts such as the importance of "history as poetry," entertainment, and the use of structured narrative to convey a point. He also highlights influential romantic historians such as Bancroft, Carlyle, Macaulay, and Michelet, discussing their writing as well as their overall personal and professional lives. Bentley also states that while the romantics disagreed with the enlightenment's rigid rationalism, and utilized language in specific and emotive ways, they did not abandon critical thought and analysis. This source will provide great foundational information about romantic history, and can additionally provide further terms, people, and concepts which to research. 

**Cheng, Eileen K**. “Romantic and Critical History,” in *Historiography: An Introductory Guide.* Continuum, 2012. 

Cheng’s chapter on Romanticism was my very first introduction to the concept. Because of this, many of the ideas and people that she incorporates into her chapter are what piqued my interest to write this paper in the first place. Cheng notes that romanticism as a whole is very broad, but she highlights some of the more important aspects of it, such as the study of the past for its own sake, the focus on using styles of literary narrative, the emphasis on the individual, and the rise of nationalism. Additionally, Cheng highlights and compares specific romantic and critical historians and showcases some of the ways in which their priorities are the same and different. I look forward to rereading and incorporating Cheng’s chapter into my paper. 

**Gossman, Lionel**. “History as Decipherment: Romantic Historiography and the Discovery of the Other.” *New Literary History* 18, vol. 1. Johns Hopkins University Press, 1986. 

This article by Gossman discusses the importance of the “real life of the past” to romantic historians, and how by utilizing techniques of description that such as those found in novels, deeper connections can be made to the individual reader. Gossman says that romantic history writers “were designed to make the reader feel that there was no barrier between him and the object, that what he beheld in his mind's eye was not a conventional representation, but the object resurrected.” Gossman notes that the French Romantic historians that actively wrote about the theory of history had no intention of professionalizing their craft, but that German romantic historians did. Additionally, on top of everything already said, the romantic idea of “the other,” essentially those that are alien or different, is a major part of Gossman's article. 

**Mitzman, Arthur.** “Michelet and Social Romanticism: Religion, Revolution, Nature.” *Journal of the History of Ideas* 57, no. 4. (1996): 659–82. https://doi.org/10.2307/3654087. 

Mitzman covers a lot of ground in his paper, writing detailed information on his life and his work, which, in these cases are often perceived as the same. Michelet represents social romanticism, Mitzman explains, and was a staunch supporter of anti-clerical republicanism, which proposed nationalist ideologies that were at the center of the romantic movement. He was deeply involved in the movements of his time, and wrote impactful works, such as *Le Peuple,* on “others” like women, nature, and the common people. Mitzman also delves into what social romanticism is, and how Michelet became involved. This work is very detailed, and therefore will be difficult to work through what is essential information in regards to my paper, but will be very helpful in providing a synopses on Michelet. 

**Orr, Linda**. “The Revenge of Literature: A History of History.” *New Literary History* 18, no. 1 (1986): 1–22. https://doi.org/10.2307/468653.

Orr illuminates the relationship between literature and history, and how the two are so intertwined, and yet, do not always want to be. Over the course of the article she discusses the attitudes to these two similar works of writing, and offers information about both specific people who practiced each. She articulatesthat in the 19th “everyone, and no one, was a historian: history came to provide the main common denominator for the many hybrid genres that characterized the (Romantic) period, combining epic, utopia, political economy, political philosophy, religion, fiction, and lyric.” Certain romantic historians were heavily influenced by novel writers, but although being similar, historians were more recognized as being a legitimate and affluent profession. 

**Phillips, Mark**. “Macaulay, Scott, and the Literary Challenge to Historiography.” *Journal of the History of Ideas* 50, no. 1 (1989): 117–33. https://doi.org/10.2307/2709789. 


**Steinby, Liisa**. “The Rehabilitation of Myth: Enlightenment and Romanticism in Johann Gottfried Herder’s Vom Geist Der Ebräischen Poesie.” *1700-Tal: Nordic Journal for Eighteenth-Century Studies* 6 (2009): 54–79. https://doi.org/10.7557/4.2760.

Steinby provides a look at Johann Gottfried Herder as the German proto-Romantic philosopher. She explains that his viewpoints of the world, along with his writings were significantly more focused on cultural and anthropological issues rather than those of wars and politics. While in this article Steinby follows Herder’s relationship with myth and religion, relating that he “saw in religion man’s aspiration to reach the Absolute in mental images,” what is more useful to my paper is how she describes his relationship to poetry and language. Steinby reminds us that while he lived in the Age of Enlightenment, Herder was an empiricist and believed that only through language, and poetry, and creating fiction, could we reach reason. ‘Our whole life is in a sense a poetics: we do not see, but create pictures for ourselves.’ While this in particular is not directly related to Historiography, it is a good transition point from Enlightenment thinking to Romantic thinking. 

**Wohlgemut, Esther**. “Southey, Macaulay and the Idea of a Picturesque History.” *Romanticism on the Net*, no. 32–33 (2003). https://doi.org/10.7202/009261ar. 

Wohlgemut provides a straightforward analysis and comparison of Thomas Babington Macaulay and his contemporary Robert Southey. What makes this article so attractive is that the analysis provided within it is highly informative, including foundational background information about romantic thought, the two historians discussed, and historiography in general, as well as more specific information about each of their works. The author writes exceptionally clearly and in a non-loaded manner which makes it easy to understand and decipher her thesis. While Macaulay is a proponent for ensuring that works of history are written in a way in which ensure readers ‘reclaim their imagination,” he also strongly believes that you shouldn’t influence the narrative so much as to impose falsehoods or subjective information. He claims that historians “relates no fact, he attributes no expression to his characters, which is not authenticated by sufficient testimony,” but instead “by judicious selection, rejection, and arrangement, he gives to truth those attractions which have been usurped by fiction.” While I will likely not include much of Southey’s story in my essay, the relationship between the two that is highlighted in the article provides useful insight into Macaulay's beliefs on the writing of history. 


---

The most helpful readings that we have had in this class that will pertain to my essay is Eileen K. Cheng's *Historiography: An Introductory Guide*. While, of course, the chapter in which she discusses romantic history will be the most helpful, the preceeding chapter on Enlightenment historiography will also provide useful information regarding what the romantics were in some cases transitioning away from, an in some cases still embracing. 

Additionally, I think that I will likely incorporate some of the very basic terminology that we discussed in relation to Fulbrook's *Historical Theory.* It would be strange to think that I wouldn't use the word paradigm or framework at least once in my essay, and I think that whether her book is directly referenced, parts of it will influence how I am writing my essay. 

There are **so** many other articles that I haven't listed here (but are saved on my zotero). An issue I've been having with my research is although I am attempting to frame my paper as an "entry-level" introduction to romantic history, much of the sources that I've been scouring through are highly specific or overly specialized in its language, making it difficult to trudge through what is actually important enough to relay to my reader. Because romantic history is so broad, it is difficult to narrow down what to say and make it impactful. 
