Annotated Bibliography

Carolyn, Jonathan Earl. Andrés González De Barcia and the Creation of the Colonial Spanish American Library. University of Toronto Press, 2005

This book focus’s specifically on the historiographical writings of Historian Andres Gonzalez De Barcia and how as it says in the title created the Colonial Spanish American Library. This book is good in showing readers the establishment of a place where information was being stored and distributed for Colonial Spanish America during the Spanish Enlightenment. This book wants to show how Gonzales De Barcia influenced historians in how they study colonial Spanish America today. This book is a good starting point to give insight on how historians were writing not only about the Country of Spain but about its colonial legacy here in the Americas. I think it’s an important aspect for the reader to see when they are learning about the Spanish Enlightenment and its legacy. 

Fitter, Derek. Spanish Romanticism and the Uses of History: Ideology and the Historical Imagination. Oxford, Legenda, 2006.

In this book Fitter speaks mainly about Spanish Romantic Historiographical narratives at the time of the Spanish Enlightenment. We see the author look at different historical writers of the time and looking closely at the strategies of their arguments. Specifically, he’s looking at two historical writers who were not Spanish but had major influence in Spain. They were Francois Guizot, who was more progressive writer at the time, and Giambattista Vico who had a more cyclical view of the historical narrative. We see the competing narratives battle for intellectual superiority and how politics played a role in the issue. This book is a good resource to explain the competing theories of Historical writing that were affecting the Spanish enlightenment and how these competing ideas from outside voices fought to move Spain forward within the context of the looming institution of the Catholic Church that was ever present. 

Paquette, Gabriel B. Enlightenment, Governance and Reform in Spain and its empire 1759-1808. Basingstoke England; New York: Plagrave Macmillan, 2008.

This book is another good reference for understanding the relationships that were functioning in Spanish society during the Spanish Enlightenment. Paquette shows the different types of historiographical analysis of the Bourbon era in Spain. It will help the readers get a sense of what was going on at the time with how Spain was trying to keep up with its European rivals by looking and reading foreign writers and their historiographical interpretations on trade and the nation state with regards to Bourbon Policies. One of the main points the Author wants to get across is that during this time how Spanish officials were looking to revive Spain and bring back prestige and honor to it. By using the concept of regalism and how that affected the new American colonies that Spain had acquired during the Spanish Enlightenment. 
