**Delsalle, Paul.** *A History of Archival Practice.* Procter, Margaret, trans. Routledge, 2018.

This book is an extensive overview of the archival profession as it emerged from ancient times to the postmodern era.  However, Delsalle writes detailed information about the rise of the archival profession and discipline as it began in the 19th century.  He includes information on the various schools of archival practice that were established in Italy, Germany, and France and their impact on the archival profession.  He also discusses the impact of major international events, like World War I and II, in how archives were managed and how these events transformed archival theory in terms of preservation and inclusivity and the development of disaster planning within the discipline.  Most importantly, he touches on the feminization of the profession and how modern countries promote and apply their own various systems of archival theory.  He writes about particular professionals who established many of the earlier theoretical standards and also the many modern archivists who are currently shaping the discipline today.  

**Ridener, John.** *From Polders to Postmodernism: A Concise History of Archival Theory.* Litwin Books, 2009.

Unlike Delsalle’s volume on a broad range of archival theory and related histories, John Ridener’s book delves much further into modern archival theory and practices.  He describes the rise of the Dutch Manual and how that impacted archival practices beginning in the 19th century.  He also focuses on two specific figures within the archival profession, Sir Hilary Jenkinson and T.R. Schellenberg.  Both men were influential within the archival disciplines for having developed and published archival administrative guides (manuals) in the early and mid-20th century.  This is a trove of information on how these two men’s theories were used to develop what would be codified as the rise of the archival profession beginning in the 1970’s.  Ridener names five specific archivists (still alive today!) that have continued to shape archival paradigms and publish scholarly works in journals written by and for professional archivists.  Lastly, Ridener contrasts the evolution of the previous theoretical practices with postmodernist thought and makes the argument that (much like what we have learned about from reading Fulbrook) the necessity of archival standards is immensely critical to the continuation of the historical profession.

**Moats, Rachel.** “An Introduction to Archival Practices.” *International Social Science Review* 94, no. 1 (January 2018): 1–9.

Rachel Moats describes in very easy to understand terms the basic principles of archival practices and what they mean for laypeople.  She breaks down the jargon and concepts of archives into simple definitions and writes an overview of how the archival profession has changed since the publication of the Dutch Manual in 1898.  She also describes the distinction between the archival profession and the work of librarians, something which has been somewhat overlooked by Delsalle and Ridener.  Moats also discusses the issues facing the modern archival profession; the inclusion of historically overlooked archival materials and the impact of technology on the field as a whole.  The author cites some incredible references, and many are written by currently important scholars on the subject (including Terry Cook and various recent publications from the Society of American Archivists).  She also debunks some of the myths surrounding the use and access of archives to the public and what impact that has on their overall value as an information repository and an institution.

**Horsman, Peter, Eric Ketelaar, and Theo Thomassen.** “New Respect for the Old Order: The Context of the Dutch Manual.” *The American Archivist* 66, no. 2 (2003): 249–70. 

This article was written as part of a series that reconsidered archival classics.  The authors describe how the Dutch Manual is typically considered the starting point of archival theory and methodology.  They also point to the idea that the Manual was not created out of thin air, but had been modeled on some already established organization methods that the Dutch had been using at least a century before.  Because the Dutch had colonies in other far-reaching geographic regions, they had an enormous number of records and information that they needed to reference in regard to financial transactions, trade agreements, and general business matters.  This led to the implementation of a loosely formulated system for categorizing and indexing these records, and would eventually lead to the creation of the Dutch Manual at the end of the 19th century.  Many of the basic ideas presented in this Manual are what later theorists would expand on in their own writings. 

**Jenkinson, Sir Hilary.** *A Manual of Archive Administration Including the Problems of War Archive Making.* Clarendon Press, 1922. 

Sir Hilary Jenkinson is one of the first British archival theorists to publish an archival manual twenty years after the Dutch Manual was popularized.  This is the classic text of Jenkinson’s own writing, and his own archival career began with his role in a public records office in England.  He was mainly concerned with the study of historic handwriting (called paleography) because of the number of hand-written records that he cared for.  However, his career in the archives became shaped by the proliferation of war archival materials after the end of World War I.  His own theories were fundamentally based on the main points contained in the Dutch Manual, but he also saw a need to shape how a repository should anticipate future collections.  He argued that it was not the place of the archivist to decide what records were to be kept or destroyed, but rather those decisions had already been made by the record creator(s).  This would cause many conflicts with other archival theorists, especially after World War II.

**Procter, Margaret.** “What’s an ‘Archivist’? Some Nineteenth-Century Perspectives.” *Journal of the Society of Archivists* 31, no. 1 (April 2010): 15–27.

Margaret Procter is an author whose work within archival theory and methodology can easily rival that of Terry Cook.  She was the English translator of Paul Delsalle’s book on Archival History (listed as a previous source above) which was a project that took her nearly a decade to complete.  Her own article describes how the ideas of what defined an archivist have evolved since the rise of the profession in the late 19th century, and even describes what some of the archival fields were like back in the medieval period.  The very idea of an archivist is closely related to that of the librarian, which is a common misconception by popular culture.  While the two professions deal with the care of sources, they are not the same in how one job (archivist) is actually curating these sources and helping to shape a narrative that will be used in scholarly research.

**Schellenberg, T.R. (Theodore R.).** *Modern Archives: Principles and Techniques.* University of Chicago Press, 1956.

T.R. Schellenberg is the second of the two figures that my essay focuses on because of their own theoretical contributions to the field.  Schellenberg was an American archivist who took great issue with Jenkinson’s denial of the need for archival appraisal, better known as the purposeful selection of particular materials that are deemed necessary for an archival collection.  The destruction of records, either because they are duplicated within the collection or they are ruled irrelevant, has been an extremely controversial topic in archival theory.  Schellenberg’s own book was based on the problems he saw after a lecture series he gave in Australia.  The lack of archival theories dedicated to talking the issues of modern archives and record-keeping prompted him to elaborate on the theories of the past and modernize them for current archivists.  He addresses everything from the establishment of archives, the very definition of archives. the differences between archivists and librarians, to the comparison of British and American record organization methods and principles of appraisal and arrangement.

**Cook, Terry.** “‘We Are What We Keep; We Keep What We Are’: Archival Appraisal Past, Present and Future.” *Journal of the Society of Archivists* 32, no. 2 (October 2011): 173–89. 

Terry Cook, a Canadian archivist, was one of the leading voices in the profession until his death in 2014.  Our own class syllabus material included an article he co-authored with Joan Schwartz, a fellow Canadian archivist, who described the power of archives.  This article is similar to the material we read, but Cook discusses the need for the unrecognized and unrecorded historical information from marginalized populations to become part of the archival record.  His writing highlights the shortcomings of modern archival collection, and relates it to traditional roles of the archivist.  He also notes that the Jenkinson rejection of appraisal is decidedly anti-modern in its approach and instead posits that archivists need to be objective curators in implementing appraisal techniques to records.  He concludes with the argument that to reject archival appraisal is to effectively silence the voices of the unheard and to proliferate the power of the archive as it highlights those in power, rather than including all relevant voices in the narrative of the archival record.



I had mentioned in my last source description, written by Terry Cook, that we read an article in class that he co-authored regarding the power of archives.  He was an extremely influential voice in the modern field of the archival profession and there are many relevant sources written or edited by him that I have come across in my research. The main source that I wanted to use from his own writings was from a conference presentation that he gave in 2010 at the American Society of Archvists annual gathering.  He discusses the matter of appraisal in modern archival practice in this article.  All of the research I have done so far keeps pointing to the controversy surrounding the idea of archival appraisal.  Appraisal of a record means that the archvist assigns a value to that information based on several factors including the worth of the record in the future.  Many archival theorists have argued for or against this practice, but the trend seems to be that appraisal is necessary.

Cook makes a great argument in the source I am citing from regarding the need for objectivity in the archival profession, as it directly relates to the reliability of the archival records that will be used in present and future research.  This is in the same vein of what we read about in the Schwartz/Cook article because of how it highlights the power of both the records and the archvist preserving and maintaining them.  It's very astonishing how much power one individual can have in affecting so many facets of scholarly research and just plain old document maintenance. 
