# Annotated Bibliography #

**Ramirez, Bruno. *Inside the Historical Film*. McGill-Queen’s University Press, 2014: 42-84**

I chose to use Chapter 3 from this book, titled “The Filmmaker as Occasional Historian.” For my essay, I want to focus on how the use of historical narrative in film can help or hinder the study and public knowledge of history, so this book by Bruno Ramirez is a great starting point for my research. I also wanted to know more about *who* Bruno Ramirez is, because in the chapter I am using he points out that he is a historian and a screenwriter he struggles with the “interweaving” of fact and fiction. Ramirez is a history professor at the University of Montreal and wrote some screenplays in the 80s and 90s. In the chapter itself, Ramirez brings up historians criticizing historical fiction films, using fiction to “enrich” the history, and the seriousness of research in correlation with how **truthful** a director wants their film to translate. I didn’t get too far into the book, but Ramirez also attempts to "draw filmakers into dialogue with academic historians.

**Cui, Di, Zihan Wang, and Arthur A. Raney. “Narrative Persuasion in Historical Films: Examining the Importance of Prior Knowledge, Existing Attitudes, and Culture.” *International Journal of Communication* (2017): 2741–59.**

This was another great piece I found, and although it is centered on World War II and the difference between U.S. and Chinese cultural perspective of World War II (or really any historical narrative) movies, it still highlights the issue of historical narrative in screenwriting becoming “exaggerated, distorted, or overly simplified through the writing and production process.” Cui, Wang, and Raney use the term *“narrative persuasion”* to describe the way the screenwriters (and producers) will write the history that the film is based on to basically persuade an intended audience to think differently about that history. This something we talked about in class recently, the duty of public history—and I think that this gets into that, in a way. I like (but also dislike) the term “narrative persuasion” because it can almost fall into propaganda and although propaganda can be a narrative in which historians can work through, it is a convoluted history that can hinder history.

**Abrash, Barbara, and Daniel J. Walkowitz. “Sub/Versions of History: A Meditation on Film and Historical Narrative.” History Workshop, no. 38 (1994): 203–14.**

I enjoyed this article because it encompasses a lot of what we’ve learned this semester in conjunction with what my paper is about—historical narrative and the role of the historian. Abrash and Walkowitz’s tone in this article is interesting because it is so reminiscent of Mary Fulbrook’s tone in *Historical Theory* where she, and these authors, speak directly to historians and their duty to their profession and the public. They highlight the duty of a historian to say what their view of history is in “both writing and film,” disrupting the conventional ways of *telling* about the past (I love that isn’t *talking* about the past), and how narrative strategies in film have “paralleled” historiographical developments. I also like that this article brings up the issue of agency, and how funding can have implications on production, distribution, and audience; all of which affect **content** of filmmaking, further affecting the subject of history and what gets to the public.

**Bonilla. “History Unchained.” Transition, no. 112 (2013): 68. https://doi.org/10.2979/transition.112.68.**

I want to use this article as a supporting item for my argument that screenwriting and historiography are not (and should not) be the same thing. The article dissects Steven Spielberg’s *Lincoln* and Quentin Tarantino’s *Django Unchained*, and how each director as a screenwriter chose to use film to frame the narrative for slavery. It is interesting because Bonilla concludes that Tarantino’s *Django* than Spielberg’s *Lincoln*, not because it is a better historical narrative (although not based on fact) but because “Tarantino is **honest with providing us with a fantasy**,” while “Spielberg tries to fool us with a fake.” I love that, although the author is critiquing both films regarding how they portray two versions of the same history, they still highlight that as a film “their value and importance will be assessed not just in terms of their accuracy, but also in terms of how they speak to the stakes, consequences, and legacies of the past in the present.”

**Bell, Jeffrey A., Claire Colebrook, and James Williams. Deleuze and History. Edinburgh, UNITED KINGDOM: Edinburgh University Press, 2009. http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/unm/detail.action?docID=434291.**

I liked this source because in the very first chapter there is mention of post-structuralism, postmodernism, and historicism. I believe this is a good source to tie in some of the topics from this semester; the authors highlight that a way of understanding postmodernism is as a “general retreat from history in favour of disrupted and disruptive localised claims each with their own timelines and schemas of narration.” This source is rich in historians and topics we have read about; Foucault, Marxist history, counter-historicism, etc. I believe this will be a good source to use, not only on its own, but in support of some of the sources we’ve already used this semester.
The best part of this chapter is there a section titled “Four Theses on History” where the writing of universal history, capitalism, the battle between arts and science, and materialist history (which I would argue historical film is the ultimate material history). I will only be focusing on the first chapter of this book, as it is the most informative and fits well with my essay topic. I think I will use it in combination with our Postmodern lectures and readings because historiography in film has become a source to reject postmodern thought and revamp history.

**Toplin, Robert Brent, and Jason Eudy. “The Historian Encounters Film: A Historiography.” OAH Magazine of History 16, no. 4 (2002): 7–12.**

When I was thinking about why I wanted to write about historiography in film, I wanted to explore the detriments of having movies like *Titanic*, *Schindler’s List*, and *Braveheart* as forms of historical knowledge. Although they are great films, have won awards for their art, and are fan favorite films for many historically inclined people they are not the best representations of history. This source is interesting because it argues history and its place in mass consumption as film, and how it is the responsibility of the director, producer, and screenwriter to ensure that the history being presented; but also, the responsibility of the public and historians to not take historical movie so superficially because what historical films can focus on history while providing “metaphors that address current issues.”

**Klenotic, Jeffrey F. “The Place of Rhetoric in ‘New’ Film Historiography: The Discourse of Corrective Revisionism.” Film History 6, no. 1 (1994): 45–58.**

Now we’re talking! Oh man, this was a really good find. I like this article, first because it is a critique on many forms of rhetoric in film historiography, and second because there is an argument to use evidence in film to make traditional histories as well as new. I believe that the author is very much like Mary Fulbrook, where he is both critical and supportive of the material in his field/what he is writing about. I think this article will be good as an explanation of the importance of filmmakers and their relationship with historiography because it talks about the relationship in respect to framework and dialogue.

**Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. 20540 USA. “History & the Movies: An Historian Writes a Screenplay.” Video. Accessed November 10, 2021. https://www.loc.gov/item/webcast-5216/.**

I think it would be remiss for me to *not* use some kind of film in my essay on historiography and film… That being said, this video is a lecture by author-historian James Reston Jr. about the “tension” between historian and dramatist (in this case; screenwriter, producer, director) when “compressing history” to create a narrative because of the issue of what sells and “holds the attention of an audience.” The lecture continues with Reston Jr. going on to dissect his book, and the narrative he wanted to create, compared to what Hollywood (what will become popular and what will sell) wanted the narrative to be. I believe this is a great source, in combination with the Bruno Ramirez source, because it is giving firsthand experience with a historian-author narrative and the pressure those historian-authors experience to see what is popular.

