# Bibliography
### Ayçoberry, Pierre. *The Nazi Question : An Essay on the Interpretations of National Socialism (1922-1975)*. New York : Pantheon Books, 1981.

The Hitlerite "worldview" is expounded upon, insomuch as one existed. Included is the Nazi view of history, from defeat in the First World War and the propagation of the "stab in the back" myth to the view of the Jews as the ultimate driver of all things anti-German in history. Nazi historians are discussed, as well as views of the German nation prior to WWI and subsequent revisions of that history during the Weimar years and ultimately following the Nazi takeover in 1933. It covers the institutionalization of Nazi mythologies in Germany's history, as well as the Nazis' favored mode of historical propaganda: that of the new medium of filmmaking.

---
### Evans, Richard J. *The Third Reich in Power*. New York, NY: Penguin Books, 2006. 

Like the rest of Germany under the Third Reich, the historical profession was subordinated to the will of the Nazi Party, which sought to wield history as a tool to mold a new generation of young Germans in the National Socialist image. As such, history was deemed to be of primary importance in this propagandistic venture. Ideologues like Alfred Rosenberg pushed for history education to become a form of propaganda and indoctrination. A new history curriculum was promulgated and distributed to the schools, one that emphasized race as the driving factor underlying history. Struggle between peoples and leadership were presented as what determined the fate of nations. Thus the militant spirit of National Socialism was foisted upon the schools and thereby the youth, a military character and strict regimentation based on the "Fuhrer Principle" that unsettled history teachers and made education feel like just another part of the military training regimen, which it turned out precisely to be. History education was transformed into a means to inure young Germans to the idea of battle and courage in the face of it. But it also was to instill an admiration in the youth for the Leader, as well as a virulent hatred of those deemed the enemy of the German people, specifically the Jews. This agenda was likewise extended to university education, though the more sophisticated methodologies of professional historians resisted crude Nazi attempts at assimilation. Additional chairs and institutes for military history and prehistory were founded in several universities to promote and justify Nazi ideas of racial supremacy.

---
### Schulze, Winfried. “German Historiography from the 1930s to the 1950s.” In *Paths of Continuity*, edited by Hartmut Lehmann and James Van Horn Melton, 1st ed., 19–48. Cambridge University Press, 1994.

The response of Germany's professional historians to the Nazi takeover was surprisingly muted in comparison to other fields of study. The traditional conservative-nationalist leanings of historians lent some amicability to the coming to power of the Nazis in 1933. Even though not a single historian was a member of the party before 1933, none left voluntarily after the takeover and there were only limited dismissals by Nazi officials. Most historians took on an affectation of "unpolitical" outward conformity while at the same time redirecting research into less controversial historical subjects, often far-removed from the present political realities. The reality was that most German historians were ok with a reorientation of history education and research into more nationalist realms. Tellingly, while some condemned acts of racial discrimination and violence as well as other social injustices perpetrated by the Nazi regime, most historians supported other government initiatives, especially those regarding territorial expansion and repudiation of the Treaty of Versailles. For these historians, patriotism was seen as inherently unpolitical, as was the belief that the First World War was not caused by Germany. Likewise, medieval Germany's eastward migration was taken for granted as an essentially "civilizing" colonization of inferior Slavic peoples. Though purporting to be "objective" investigators of history in the Rankean sense, the "objective" view of Germany aligned suspiciously with the nationalist proclivities of many historians at the time.

---
### Lambert, Peter. “German historians and Nazi ideology: the parameters of the Volksgemeinschaft and the problem of historical legitimation, 1930-45.” European History Quarterly 25, no. 4 (1995).
(requested on ILL)

---
### Sims, Amy R. “Intellectuals In Crisis: Historians Under Hitler.” VQR (1978). [access](https://www.vqronline.org/essay/intellectuals-crisis-historians-under-hitler)

Professors at German universities enjoyed great prestige as well as powerful positions within the university. German universities had long had a global reputation as centers of free association and learning. Historians were in prime position for dissent as the intellectuals most aware of the connections between the state and power politics, as the academic realm of political science had not yet emerged as a separate discipline. Historians were the "custodians of the national memory," and thus their interpretation of history meant much for contemporary political ends. However, German historians were generally reluctant to voice their politics as they closely adhered to the Rankean concept of historical objectivity, which warned against transposing contemporary values onto history. As the Wiemar Republic collapsed and the Nazis came to power, historians in general were disturbed but, apart from a few cases such as Gerhard Ritter and Friedrich Meinecke, there was not any substantial public outcry.

---
### Lehmann, Hartmut, and James Van Horn Melton. *Paths of Continuity: Central European Historiography from the 1930s to the 1950s*. Washington, D.C.; Cambridge [England]; New York: German Historical Institute ; Cambridge University Press, 1994.

---
### Berger, Stefan, Mark Donovan, and Kevin Passmore. *Writing National Histories: Western Europe Since 1800*. London; New York: Taylor & Francis Group, 1999.

The years between 1933 and 1941 were characterized by widespread affinity between historians and the National Socialist movement. Following the establishment of the Wiemar Republic and the Treaty of Versailles, historians like many Germans longed for a return of lost German territories and replacement of the parliamentary republic with a monarchical or otherwise authoritarian political system that would be "above politics" - a sentiment conspicuously supported by belief in "objective" history. Moreover, many historians supported Nazi attempts to strengthen the state at the expense of regional particularlisms. Nazi psuedo-theories of history as the product of primarily *Volkstum*, or blood and race, were put forward by the more enthusiastic National Socialist historians. They talked of "right-wing revolutionary action" and *Volksgemeinschaft* (people's community). Liberal-democrat and left-leaning historians were vehemently attacked by the more Nazi historians for not fully adopting some of these psuedo-theories. The Nazis found more professional historians harder to 'convert' to a National Socialist worldview for the reason that Nazi psuedo-theories were often self-contradictory, an eclectic mix of ideas, myths, historical fabrications and half-truths that bent history to ideological whim. German university history departments as in the rest of the Nazi German state were characterized by infighting between those committed to the Nazi cause over what interpretations of history best reflected National Socialist values. In spite of the efforts of early post-war historiography to tie the compliance of intellectuals with the Nazis to racism alone, there were other affinities related to the historiography of the time that drew intellectuals, including historians, to tacitly accept if not outright support the new regime.

---
### Schönwälder, Karen. “The Fascination of Power: Historical Scholarship in Nazi Germany.” History Workshop Journal 43, no. 1 (March 1, 1997): 133–53.

Historians were not simply naive and misunderstanding of the nature of National Socialism, nor were they beat into silence by terror, but on the contrary, many if not most worked actively to legitimize Germany's pretensions as a European hegemonic power and welcomed the Hitler government as a means to destroy the hated Republic, restore the Empire and its boundaries, and ultimately make Germany a military force on the world stage once again. Many publications produced at that time presented Germany's territorial expansion as perfectly in-keeping with historical trends. The destruction of democracy was widely celebrated as an end to factionalism and a return to national 'unity.' German historians not only applauded the imperialist aspirations of the new Germany and celebrated the *Anschluss*, but adjusted their analysis as events unfolded. After the conquest of Poland, the narrative turned away from *Volksgemeinschaft* and towards the idea of *Mitteleuropa.* Historians, like Kurt von Raumer in 1941, conceived of Germany as an essentially civilizing force, building a "better Europe" through the establishment of its hegemonic power.

---

In the early years of the collapse of the Weimar Republic and the emergence of the National Socialist movement, most historians kept their political opinions to themselves. It was generally accepted as an ethical pillar of the profession not to bring contemporary politics into their lectures and historical works. This tradition was strongly influenced by two famous German intellectuals: Leopold von Ranke and Max Weber. Ranke's concept of historical objectivity weighed heavily on German historians, who shared his conviction that the most objective and "accurate" historical works were those that did not transpose contemporary values onto times past, time which must instead be judged by their own merits. Max Weber echoed this sentiment in his 1918 lecture "Scholarship as a Profession" in which he declared "politics is out of place in the lecture room."
