1.Fulbrook, M. (2002). Historical Theory (1st ed.). Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203450659.  

The Historical Theory, by Mary Fulbrook, gives a comprehensive analysis of how Max Weber’s different approaches in the field of history influenced historical writing.  Fullbrook examines Max Weber’s concept of the relationship between social structure and social action, the ideal type, the charismatic leader, and social constructs relationships between economics and political explanations of macro historical phenomena. Fulbrook expands on Max Weber’s “proliferation of explicit conceptual categories or ideal types, which allows scholars to compare ‘reality’ against the constructed ideal type’ (Fulbrook, 89-90). Fulbrook thoroughly explains and examines Weber’s concepts of religion and economy, ‘value neutral’ and ‘objective’ history, social behaviors and authority, and the significance of and influence these constructed concepts have on historical writing.  

Fulbrook discusses how “Weber developed a methodology of self-aware approach to problems of the world history resulted in a highly sophisticated set of concepts and theses, and how Weber sought to combine the systematic pursuit of valid historical generalizations with an emphasis on the need for an interpretative understanding of the internal meanings of human behavior, both in the sense of individual motives for action and in the wider sense of collective belief systems which could not be reduced , as in Marx’s work, to some underlying material base, Weber sought to separate academic analysis from political prescriptions, with his notion of value neutral and objectivity” (Fullbrook, 15). 

“Weber's view, the beauty of the ideal type, is that it allows the scholar to compare reality against the constructed ideal type” (Fulbrook, 89). Fulbrook examines Weber's social concept aim of cultural sciences and the “proliferation of explicit conceptual categories or ideal types to attempt to develop a social equivalent of the Scientific Table of Elements, which with different mixes, produce different complex phenomena in the real world” (Fulbrook, 90).“Weber’s concept of charisma has proven particularly helpful for those historians who are highly aware of the importance of structures and yet at the same time deal with individuals who historical role has seemed of indispensable, overwhelming importance” (129). 


2.Bendix, Reinhard. “Max Weber’s Interpretation of Conduct and History.” American Journal of Sociology 51, no. 6 (1946): 518–26. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2770678. 

Reinhard Bendix’s “Max Weber’s Interpretation of Conduct and History” deals “with Weber's method of historical inquiry, his view of the relation between history and sociology, and the significance of his theory and method for his interpretation of history” (518). Bendix discusses how Weber’s claim that ‘ideal types’ provide the social scientist with unambiguous concepts and how such concepts should be free from value-judgments, according to Weber; and how his own construction of these concepts involves an interpretation of history. Bendix broadly discusses Weber's interpretation of the "social" in its relation to his view of historical causation. Bendix emphasizes Weber’s theory and methodology, his interpretation of the ‘social’ in relation to historical causation and the "process of rationalization", the central concept in Weber's research, as well as in his philosophy of history” (525). Bendix explains Weber’s idea of a "historical development" as being thought-constructed and simultaneously having no empirical reference other than past individual conduct. Bendix explores how Weber conceives social changes, rather, in terms of a succession of specific historical events, the role of human action in the process of history. Bendix breaks down and explains Weber’s concepts and the basic principles, and how they are significant and influential to historical methodology and writing. 

“According to Weber the fundamental unit of social analysis is individual conduct. This conduct is endowed with meaning by the individual as he orients himself with reference to the conduct of others. Human conduct, as the locus both of meaning and of the "social," is the subject matter of sociology, as Weber understands it. All social institutions, groups, and classes, as well as the development of any of these, are, therefore, thought constructs, which serve as useful tools for the analysis of social phenomena. For the heuristic interpretation of conduct by sociology these configurations are nothing but sequences and relationships of the specific actions of individual human beings, since only these actions are for us the understandable embodiment of meaningfully oriented conduct” (525). 


3.Burke, Peter. Social History 10, no. 1 (1985): 109–11. http://www.jstor.org/stable/4285407.  

Burke expands on the significance of Weber’s concepts “of the puritan movement or more generally to the problem of the relationship between religion and politics, explanations of ' macro-historical phenomena” (Burke, 110). Burke’s inquiry of Weber’s concept provides what Fulbrook calls “the 'precisionist movements' at the time of their emergence, more exactly with England 1560-1640, with Württemberg 1680-I780 and with Prussia I690-1740" and how this influenced and even determined the different obstacles faces in the pursuit of specific religious goals in historiography (Burke, 110).  Burke provides a background of the involvement “between the English puritan movement, which was obviously 'active' and 'anti-absolutist', with pietism in both Württemberg ('anti-absolutist' but 'passive') and Prussia ('active' but 'pro-absolutist'), and what is the reason for this difference in historical writing” (110). 


4.Goddard, David. “Max Weber and the Objectivity of Social Science.” History and Theory 12, no. 1 (1973): 1–22. https://doi.org/10.2307/2504691. 

Goddard explores Max Weber’s “methodological writings on value neutral and objectivity in historical writings” (1). He “concluded that in respect to the so-called historical disciplines, at least, (sociology, economics, history, law, and presumably the anthropology of his time) this necessary orientation to value not merely influences the objectivity of historical study but is the very principle which makes that objectivity possible in the first place, it acts as a principle of selection whereby fragments of the succession of cultural events are endowed with a form of objectivity - becoming, as a result, phenom” (Goddard, 1973, p1).  

Goddard explores the influence of Max Weber’s historical influence on objectivity and social science. Goddard outlines the “criterion of historical objectivity is the methodological assumption, usually implicit and unstated, of all historiographies, and how it is shared, for example, by virtually all critical philosophers of history” (Goddard, p2). Goddard contrasts “the opinions of Leo Strauss, to take a significant counter-instance, the historian has not for his main project the "objective evaluation" of events, personages, doctrines, motives, and actions in order thereby to arrive at the truth of history” (Goddard, 2). Goddard demonstrates how Weber’s well showed, truth, in the case of history, is a matter of establishing empirical grounds of "adequate causation" for the occurrence of particular events and phenomena, and not their "objective" assessment through the application of some timeless evaluative schema” (Goddard, 2). Goddard provides how “Weber puts forward the elements of a critique of evaluative reason, parallel in idea to Kant's own critique of pure reason which he intended as the foundation for the natural sciences” (Goddard, 3). Goddard’s examination of History and Theory of Weber’s historical influence illustrates Weber’s views on what constitutes as objectivity in human sciences and how “Weber's hands sociology is barely distinguishable from history, and that he established a considerable number of fundamental sociological concepts, both general and empirical” (Goddard, 5). 

5.Kim, Sung Ho, "Max Weber", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2021 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2021/entries/weber/>. -- 

The Standford Encyclopedia of Philosophy will be used to give Max Weber’s various influences on methodology, philosophical, and historical contributions.  This will be used to explain Weber’s grand meta-historical analysis of western dominance and capitalism, the iron cage, value neutral, theory on charismatic leadership, and rationalization impacts on historiography. Kim expands on Max Weber’s upbringing and background, his religiosity and absolute ideals. Kim provides the significance of Weber’s devoutness to Calvinism, which helps explain his ideas of historical philosophies. Calvinists tents require very abstained and strict lives, and this is reflected in Weber's historical writings, interpretations, assumptions, and concepts. Kim explains Weber’s education as a lawyer and historian, his tenure as a law professor at the University of Berlin, and his military service which helped shape his historical ideologies.  

Kim provides where “Max Weber (1864-1920) grew up, Germany during the Bismarck Ian era and in 1882 he attended the universities of Heidelberg, Göttingen, and Berlin where he studied law but simultaneously acquired professional competence as an economist, historian, and philosopher which helped shape his historical inquiries. Kim discusses how “he was a political realist and a nationalist who nevertheless criticized his country with detachment and treated national shibboleths with derision” (Kim). Interestingly, Kim points out that “his work bristles with an awareness of the unresolved paradoxes of the human condition, which Weber sought to understand based on his extraordinary historical knowledge and to conceptualize at a level between historical description and a theory of sociological universals” which influenced and changed historical writing (Kim). 

6. Cheng, Eileen Ka-May, Historiography, 4–28 (Chap 1: Art and Science in Renaissance Historical Writing). Click the “View eBook” link to get to the actual online text.

Cheng will be used to provide the change in interest divided historical schools of thought, separating the ecclesiastical, the literary, and civil. And how this opened the field of history to different avenues. History had been treated as "an artistic branch of rhetoric and literature, serving as political narrative with the goal of offering lessons of the past for the present", it "focused on style and form rather than scholarship and research" (Cheng, pg. 9).Cheng will expand on the critical historians, the more conservative **nationalist**, and Romantic historians more cosmopolitan liberalism.

Historical writers (such as Weber) began to focus on cultural change to explain causation of human actions, the tangible human causes and the influence the free world has on the issues rather than looking to the intangible, and how information from sources and documents should be systematically and critically analyzed. However, most "Renaissance thinkers still sought to recover and hold on to a past that seemed increasingly distant from them, and this changed the nature of interest" (Cheng, pg. 6).

Separating schools of thought allowed "history broader ranges of cultural changes and shifting **away from the Church"**, turning towards more humanistic and secular analysis (Cheng, pg.5). This transformation allotted historians to “examine wider range of causes beyond attributing events to individuals or God, devoting much more attention to the complex relationship between them” (Whitacre, Madeline, Renaissance Historiography).

Also gives a little back ground on Romanticism of the 19th century, and how “historians interest in the rise of two seemingly opposed approaches to history, the view of history as a form of Romantic art, in which the historian's purpose was to make the past come alive for the reader, and the view of Critical history as a science whose purpose was to recover the objective truth of the past” (Cheng, 61) By “combining the commitment to scientific history with a firm belief in the artistic element of history, urging the importance of form as well as content in the writing of history”, and using dramatic techniques to create suspense and bring characters in his historical works to life, changed the standards, practices, and motivations associated with the professionalization of history (Cheng, 72).

7. Redding, Paul, "Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Winter 2020 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/win2020/entries/hegel/>.

Redding will be used to give background on German philosophical and historical growth during the 1700-1800's. Redding discusses "Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, German idealism after Kant (1770-1831),and Hegels attempt's at idealist philosophies that laid the foundation to the movement for Weber in the later 1860's. Redding describes Hegel's historical influence saying "he is perhaps most well-known for his teleological account of history, an account that was later taken over by Marx and “inverted” into **a materialist theory of an historical development ** culminating in communism" (Redding, Paul). Redding also discusses the influences of Weberian historical thinking, of Friedrich von Schelling (1775–1854)--Schelling had become **more religious** in his philosophising and criticised the **rationalism of Hegel’s philosophy**, in which during this time of Schelling’s tenure at Berlin, important forms of later critical reaction to Hegelian philosophy developed" (Redding). Redding also will be used to discuss how "Hegel as a philosopher, introduced this historically reflective dimension into philosophy (and set it on the characteristically romantic path which has predominated in modern continental philosophy) but who had unfortunately still remained bogged down in the remnants of the Platonistic idea of the search for ahistorical truths (Rorty 1982)". 

8. Kaelber, Lutz. Review of The Art of Reading and Understanding Max Weber: Reflections on Recent (And Not-so-Recent) Readers and Compilations, by Stephen Karlberg, Richard Swedberg, and Sam Whimster. The Canadian Journal of Sociology / Cahiers Canadiens de Sociologie 31, no. 1 (2006): 131–41. https://doi.org/10.2307/20058683.

Kaelber will be used as a "tool for understanding Weber's core ideas, particularly in Economy and Society and his sociology of religion" (Kaelber, 132). Kaelbar ensues decades of translations of Weber's methodological writings and essays on the economic ethics of the world religions to provide how Weber influenced historical writing and thought. Kaelbar argue's that Weber's position was that with a few but important exceptions Christianity attributed little religious value to worldly work or labor before the Reformation. In regard to the religious value of secular work among the masses (in this case, laity), there were a few minor exceptions such as the views of Johannes Tauler, as Weber noted in The Protestant Ethic
without further elaboration" (Kaelbar, 136).

----
ALSO, you need to add an additional ~250 words (~2–3 small paragraphs) explaining how sources from the course are relevant to your topic. Use our course repository to remind yourself of what we’ve covered! Again, this work will funnel directly into your essays.

I will be using Cheng, Ranke, and Marx, possibly, to intertwine their historical influences before, during, and after Weber. This will provide how historical writing has changed over that century and why Weber's influence was important. Ranke's methods of the Göttingen School of History was the first to establish historical seminars.“Ranke put critical methods into practice which would be required later and laid basis for the development of history into a professionalized discipline” (Cheng 71) Ranke’s famous statement that “every epoch is immediate to God" which open avenues for Weber in his later works of Protestism and Economy (Cheng, 73)

With Ranke, we can observe multiple facuets that Weber uses and expands on, such as Ranke's interest in the particular reflected in part a scientific concern with empirical facts, his fascination with studying the particular in all it uniqueness was also consistent with the premium that Romantic thinkers placed on the individuality and diversity of human experience”, while Weber does utilize the focus Weber's utilizes this thought to produce new interpretations of phiolosophy of historiograpy (Cheng, 72). Ranke, “emphasized military and political developments which are paramount in turning the nation into a basic unit of historical analysis and legitimizing it development as the natural product of history” while Weber produced further developments in politics and religion (Cheng, 76). 


Marx will provide how after Weber's influence brought forth new investigations and inquiries into constructionalism, fundamentalism, and concentration on captialism and culture.
Marx's ideology provides a detailed breakdown of the connections between accomplishments in war, modernization of the people, and advancements in industry and how they relate to the intellectual and revolutionary trends in late imperial Russia, showing how Webers influence again opens new ideologies and avenues for historical thinking and writing.Cheng will be used as a source to explore nationalism in historical writing, shifts in historical writing, and humanistic and secular anaylsis during the 19th century. Cheng helps set the stage prior to Weber in German historical philosophies. 
