Reading reflection

•	What would you say are the key differences between Romantic and Critical history?

Some of the key differences between Romantic and Critical History are how they approach the study of History all together. Romantics want History to come alive for those studying it to be able to see History as an art form where style matters. Critical History on the other hand was most concerned with getting to the facts as objectively and clear cut as you could possibly get. We also see in the chapter how sometimes these two concepts Romantic and Critical can be used together to help create the historical narrative. We see with Historians like Ranke who according to Cheng reading is considered the father of scientific history Cheng also went on to say, “Yet rather than viewing romantic and scientific history as opposed to each other, Ranke brought together both of these approaches in his work.” (Cheng,70) Ranke was also very important in the professionalization of the field of History where he saw it as a science that required special training. Where Ranke was able to combine the two approaches of Romantic and Scientific was later mentioned in the Cheng chapter with how Ranke believed that the writing on History had to be done with form and style to be able to dramatize the subject in order to bring life to it to make it attractive to the potential reader. 

•	Give a few examples from von Humboldt’s article that illustrate characterizations of history that appear in Cheng’s chapter. What’s most interesting to you about this description of a historian’s task?

I think one of the best examples I could find in Humboldt’s article that coincides with Cheng’s chapter are how scientific and romantic views of history don’t have to be opposed to each other and can be useful and influence each other in positive ways with regards to the historical narrative that is being forged. “The two methods have to be followed simultaneously in the approach to historical truth; the first is the exact, impartial, critical investigation of events; the second is the connecting to the events explored and the intuitive understanding of them which could not be reached by the first means. To follow one path is to miss the essence of truth itself; to neglect this path, however, by overemphasizing the second one is to risk falsification of truth in the details.” (Humbolt,59) I thought this quite long quote was important to show how both forms can be beneficial to the understanding of History. To me this means that yeah, we do need to be objective and truthful, but we also need to be able to show why the events that happened need to have emotion and dramatic motivations because human beings have the capacity to understand both scientific and romantic notions blended together. It’s the Historians job to strike the right balance. 

Question/s
With Marx wanting a worker’s revolution to happen worldwide what would that mean for the study of History? As we have seen in the past History had been a subject mainly for the elites in society a cosmopolitan endeavor how would a Marxist workers revolution look at History would it be different? Would it all be about class or would romanticism or scientific notions be emphasized at all in the workers utopia?   
