# Romantic and Critical History #

Very weird to see Romanticism and Nationalism in the same sentence; bold move Cheng, but I think that just comes from the negative connotation we tend to have for nationalism since... well since history has proven itself to always delve negatively into nationalism. Still, I think this was the first time where Cheng truly caught my attention in the first paragraph of this chapter- although I think that's just because I tend to have more interest in Modern and Postmodern histories.

When we're looking at history during the Romantic period and during the Enlightenment, both eras were looking to the past, but Enlightenment historians were looking for answers to the past, present, and future; Romanticism wasn't going down that same path, not without adding some flare and artistic perspective. Romantics were looking at the history for the *sake* of looking at history, while placing value on *emotion*.

Still, an issue I have with Romanticism comes from the belief that truth was "something that came from the individual," thus giving people the freedom to ***interpret*** and "create" truth. This is where my issue lies; when an individual can interpret their own version of history, how does that affect the course of all history? I took a French Revolution and Napoleon Buonaparte history class a couple of semesters ago, and we discussed many times how people during the Modern period of history tended to **exaggerate** certain aspects of history. This is validated with Bowen's "high coloring" comment which doesn't sit well with me at all.

But finally, we get a version of history that makes sense- Critical History. We've been reading about historians in their respective periods who are critical of history, but now there is finally some merit to being critical and professional That being said, for the most part I like Ranke because he defines history as a science, and he knows how to write (with Romantic influence) with "literary art" and dramatics which would interest people for years to come.

Since the very beginning of the semester, we have asked ourselves what a historian's task is. Cheng states that the role of the historian was to "use the imagination to enter into the feelings of [his] subjects and enable readers to experience those feelings for themselves, not to project [his] own feelings and perspective into his account of the past." I have to agree with *half* of Cheng's statement, because I believe that *it is* important for everyone to give their opinions/feelings/perspective because those beliefs are history; good or bad, they're **valid**. When reading von Humboldt, he states that "[I]n its final, yet simplest solution, the historians task is the presentation of the struggle of an idea to realize itself in actuality." I couldn't have said it better, and honestly can never put it so eloquently. von Humboldt has a wonderful way of saying in his article that there *is* a way to balance truth, freedom of approach, subtlety, and tact to record history.
