The key difference between critical (scientific) and romantic views of history lies in the role of the historian as an aggregator and judge of facts and sources versus that of the artist utilizing historical facts to construct grand historical narratives with the help of imagination. 

Humboldt notes the importance of imagination in a historian's arsenal as a means to bring history alive for the reader but also says that this sort of imagination is not pure fantasy but could more readily be called “intuitive faculty.” Humboldt actually describes a synthesis of critical and romantic history by proclaiming the importance of “exact, impartial, critical investigation of events” alongside that of “connecting the events explored [with an] intuitive understanding of them.” Thus, the job of the historian, as described by Humboldt, is to utilize his/her own intellectual faculties alongside sober analysis of the facts to (re)construct a complete and seamless historical narrative. History is described as “no less an art” than philosophy and literature - a particularly apt description of the work of a Romantic-era historian.

It is interesting that some Romantic-era historians such as Bancroft professed their work to be unbiased while adopting a teleological perspective of history and coming to the conclusion that their nation was an exception from traditional historical developments. This appears to be a contradiction.

Does imagination have a place in modern historical scholarship or has the romantic notion of bringing the past to life for the reader devolved from a responsibility of the historian to that of popular history authors?

Is a teleological approach to history always “begging the question” instead of representing a serious line of historical inquiry? Were Bancroft and Marx right in seeing history as a lead-up to the American and proletarian revolutions, respectively, or does this line of thought introduce the external agendas of the authors in question? Is this mode of doing history ever useful?
