## Romantic and Critical Historiography Reading Reflection

Romantic historiography, simply put, is the idea that historians ought to bring history and the past to life. That is, it rejects the enlightenment focus on rationality, instead focusing on emotion. To be a Romantic historian, like being a Romantic artist, was not about reasoning through the issues of the day, but rather, to do three things: make the past vivid to the reader by appealing to the emotions, emphasize the uniqueness of the individual through the writing of history, and to conceive of the historian as an arbiter of sorts between the human and the divine, through the use of writing history both imaginatively.

Critical history, on the other hand, was a much more scientific approach. It was about critically analyzing sources in order to extract from them as much truth as possible, without any regard for any perscriptive or normative messages. In other words, critical historians would look at both primary and secondary histories, in an attempt to separate opinion from fact.

This however, was not completely divorced from Romantic thought in historiography. Some historians, such as George Bancroft, an American historian, viewed American history up to that point, as both an execution of divine will and as the last event in a teleological chain of occurrences; everything up to that point had a necessary purpose leading up to the revolution in accordance with the will of the divine. In this way, Bancroft viewed American history up to that point scientifically, as a causal chain of events leading up to the next through time, and Romantically, as an expression of divine providence through appealing to Americans via their emotional attachment to the revolution.

Humboldt, writing on what the job of the historian is, seems to be much more of the critical persuasion than the Romantic, as he specifically criticizes imaginative history for its own sake, and instead suggests that the imagination of the historian should be subordinate to the actual investigation into the facts of the past. Despite this, he additionally argues that it is likewise the historians task to cultivate a. "sensibility for reality". Like art, Humboldt argues, history is a mere representation odf reality and nature.

This is similar to George Bancroft, as both shared a scientific view of history, putting together an account of what happened and in what way, while also relaying it artistically. To create a "sensibility for reality"--as Humboldt argues is the job of the historian--for the reader of history, I believe that the historian must appeal to the emotions of the reader and thereby invoking their sense of individuality, without sacrificing the objective truth of the actual historical events in themselves. In this way, I believe that critical and artistic romantic history, must work off of one another without taking away from the substance of the historical narrative.

### Informed question
Can critical and Romantic history truly be divorced from one another?