# Romanticism, Critical History, and Von Humboldt 

During Romanticism of the 19th century “historians interest in the rise of two seemingly opposed approaches to history, the view of history as a form of Romantic art, in which the historian's purpose was to make the past come alive for the reader, and the view of Critical history as a science whose purpose was to recover the objective truth of the past” (Cheng, 61) By “combining the commitment to scientific history with a firm belief in the artistic element of history, urging the importance of form as well as content in the writing of history”, and using dramatic techniques to create suspense and bring characters in his historical works to life, changed the standards, practices, and motivations associated with the professionalization of history (Cheng, 72). 

Although born to the same era Romantic and Critical historiographies have vastly different emphasis on ideologies. Critical historian more conservative nationalist and Romantic historian’s more cosmopolitan liberalism. Romanticism focuses on “the individual appealing as a basis for challenging the established social order, advancing ideas of liberty, freedom, and democracy,” while Critical laid the basis to re-establish social order, the monarchy, and the church. (Cheng, 65). Regardless of differences, Critical historicism embodied the era of Romanticism’s artistic perspective, laying the groundwork for professionalizing history into historicism. 

Wilhelm von Humboldt (1767-1835) embodied the Romanticism and Critical history of the era. He wrote poetically about the dilemmas and struggles of objectivity and subjectivity in history. Von Humboldt understood both the artist and the scientific endeavors of history. The three distinct characteristizations of history in Von Humboldt’s article that are illustrated in Cheng’s Romantic and Critical chapter, is the endless pursuit of validating the truth based on laws and science, the artistic narrative, and the necessity of events. 

The characterizations in Cheng’s history illustrate how Romantic and Critical historians felt about the objective truth, demonstrating history’s scientific goal, the pursuit of the objective truth, “regardless of conditions and unattractiveness the nature, is absolute” (Cheng, 71). Von Humboldt also takes on this character, illustrating in his article that “Nothing is rarer, therefore, than a narrative which is literally true; nothing is better proof of a sound, well-ordered, and critical intelligence and of a free, objective attitude. (Von Humboldt,58). “The striving for the truth of events seems obvious enough. It is, however, the most difficult attainment conceivable” (Von Humboldt, 59). 

In Cheng’s characterization of history, we learn that historians “influenced by the Romantic ideals of art, formed literary art, that brought characters to life” (Cheng, 73). Cheng’s characterization of this history conveys how one must recreate and “synthesize the research into a coherent narrative” (Cheng, 71). Von Humboldt illustrates this saying, “the manifestations of an event are scattered, disjointed, isolated; what it is that gives unity to this patchwork, puts the isolated fragment into its proper perspective, and gives shape to the whole, remains removed from direct observation” (Von Humboldt, 58). 

Cheng characterizes the “Romantic and scientific ideals of this era places emphasis on the necessity for the historian to study the particular, rather than the universal or abstract, the object of study” (Cheng, 72). Von Humboldt illustrates this stating “the historian must therefore seek the necessity of events; he must not, like the poet, merely impose on his material the appearance of necessity; rather, he must keep constantly in mind the ideas which are the laws of necessity, because only by being steeped in them can he find evidence of them in any pure inquiry into the real in its reality” (Von Humboldt, 59). 

Overall, the most interesting description Von Humboldt illustrates, “one can only reveal the truth of an event by presentation, by filling in and connecting the disjointed fragments of direct observation, he can do so, like the poet, only through his imagination.” (Von, Humboldt, 58). This provides some subjectivity that is necessary to objective facts to bring together a greater understanding of human nature. It is a balance between the approaches to expand history through different coherent narratives yet keeping objective facts of law and science while citing and analyzing events to find the truth. 
