### Transparency
What I mean by transparency is that as a historian you have to be clear and transparent to see what paradigms you are using. Knowing this, a historian is able to see where their paradigms are leading what questions they are asking and how they go about writing and researching history. Transparency also means being able to attempt to clear a loaded word like what “class” is to them and how that lead is how they lead to their conversation about the topic. This will lead the historian to see the pitfalls of their analysis of the topic and allow for constructive debates over it if it can not be rectified by their research. By being transparent about your paradigms, it allows for a potentially clearer possibility of the past when compared to other paradigms. And the comparison between transparent historians can help find the gaps in knowledge and spark new questions about those gaps and further historical research into those gaps.  

---

For the future student,

Before you dive into Historical Theory know that Fulbrook does have a tendency to talk in circles, so it is alright if you do not understand what she is saying the first time. This book will sometimes go over your head and just bring what you got out of the chapter to class and talk in the class discussion, hopefully that will help you make sense of what you could not. For me, the best approach is to set time to really digest the book and do not try to skim the text. As I stated earlier if you need to re-read the text that is fine. For me the most useful was chapter 3 talking about historical paradigms because they were something that I never thought about before. On the other hand, that same chapter was also the most confusing for me because Fulbrook would lose me then I would regain what she was meaning but she had moved on to a different topic. But again, stick with the book and engage with the conversations in class if all else fails do not be afraid to ask.  
