Describe Fulbrook’s main point in ONE WORD. Really, just ONE WORD. But then write a short paragraph that describes what you mean and why you think that word is so central. Obviously no book can be adequately summarized in a single word, so let’s all embrace the absurdity of this task as a fun way of highlighting and comparing in class the key theme/idea you found most compelling.
I think if there was one word to describe this book, I think it would be paradigms. I say that because I think that Fulbrook tells the different levels of history and how historians should look at the past, in the last chapter of her book, Fulbrook says, “We can still retain a notion of history as a disciplined investigation of that which has gone before- a discipline which is self-reflective, aware of the implications of the choices practitioners must make in terms of the concepts, approaches and methods they use” (Fulbrook. Pg. 188).She talks about the methods of using different paradigms when looking at history and how to make sense of it all. I think that she sets up the critical side of looking at history and using logic to focus on the past. She also states how the resources used to put the pieces of history together are only as good as how we as historians look at them. She states in her book, “The process of historical investigation and representation are about making sense of the past. Making sense is of course an activity in the present; and it is an active practice, not a matter of  passive reception and reflection on what has gone before. Making sense means imposing categories, looking for patterns, searching for connections, seeking answers to questions, imbuing the pass with meaning. And this is what we, as humans, do all the time. Professional historians (should?) have more time, resources, and training, more sophisticated methodology, familiarity with key traditions, knowledge, and a set of debates, more willingness and capacity to explore totally unknown territory, than other people; but humans are inevitably historically conscious creatures. Historical practices- the activity of seeking to make sense of those aspects of the past that are important in the present- will continue, however contested their character maybe. It is all the more important that we are highly aware of what we are doing as historians” (Fulbrook.  Pg.198-69). Fulbrook talks alot about the paradigm shifts between looking at resources and how to put them together to form a bigger picture and how to look at history in a critical way. 
For lots of karma points, write a short letter to a future student of this class. What should they know before diving into Historical Theory? How can they approach it to get the most out of it? How was it most useful? Where was it too confusing? What questions did it leave unanswered?
I think it's important to look at history through multiple lenses, meaning you can't just look at history in critical and logical ways. You must look at it like a painter overlooking their masterpiece, every little detail is important to the overall bigger picture. It's notable to view history as lessons to the present and the future, but also to let the events and people of the past a voice and a chance for their stories to be told. I think that history isn't just about learning from the past, however, I think that history is also a way to understand the people and cultures of the past. History is notably not on everyone's favorite classes list, along with math, but I think that if people look at history as more than just logically and critically, but artistic, and literary. 
