•	
Book reflection

Another two-part reflection for today.

•	Describe Fulbrook’s main point in ONE WORD. Really, just ONE WORD. But then write a short paragraph that describes what you mean and why you think that word is so central. Obviously, no book can be adequately summarized in a single word, so let’s all embrace the absurdity of this task as a fun way of highlighting and comparing in class the key theme/idea you found most compelling.

As I am forced by the question at hand to summarize Mary Fulbrook’s main point into ONE WORD I’m going to have to go and say that one word would be TRANSPARENCY. Throughout the book Fulbrook is arguing against postmodern assessments that History doesn’t really matter that in reality History is just fiction that we make up and that throughout the book you can see that really made her angry. She shows us how history has evolved, and that History matters that it’s not fiction and it’s a discipline that demands TRANSPERANCY from those who seek to write it. Fulbook makes a great point in the last chapter of the book “We are not, in short, left with History as fiction. Nor do we have to buy into a notion of one single historical truth to be able to develop ways of rationally deciding between competing accounts of selected aspects of the past; rejecting a notion of progress in History does not simultaneously entail rejecting a notion of progress in historical understanding” (185) What Fulbook says here really resonated with me about what this whole class has been about why Historical Theory is important to understand even though it can be perplexing and head scratching for me anyways but it made me think in a different way to where he maybe the point isn’t to try to find an absolute truth or to try to get an accurate measure of progress but instead to be able to see there are many ways to look at historical analysis and even though we may never totally agree on a “supra paradigm” or be “theory neutral” as Fullbrook stated we can try to be able to understand each other by being as transparent as possible with sound research, and sources. 

•	For lots of karma points, write a short letter to a future student of this class. What should they know before diving into Historical Theory? How can they approach it to get the most out of it? How was it most useful? Where was it too confusing? What questions did it leave unanswered?

To whom it many concern 

Dear Prospective History 491 Student, do you want to feel confused? Do you desperately want to use the word Paradigm in a conversation?  Do you want to feel unsure about the nature of “truth” and “progress” with regards to History but in a good way? Well than I suggest you sign up for the course and not only because it’s a prerequisite for a degree in History either! So now that I have your attention Student let me give you some advice on what to expect when you take this history course. First you should come into the course with an open mind you because you are going to be reading books that are going to challenge your ideas on what History is and how its understood. A good way to approach the course is to ask questions when you are unsure of a term or idea that a particular author is putting forth its best to ask the question and discuss it in class and discuss it with your peers because I found more times than not that we were thinking the same thing. I think the way this course was the most useful to me student was that I know am able to look at historical events and narratives with a new set of glasses it feels like my eyesight has improved metaphorically although when I say this I also must be honest that this course has at the same time complicated my understanding of History immensely and has led me to be a tad critical and more vigilant and abrasive when I’m looking at past historical writers and thinkers but it’s not a bad thing it means the lessons in the course are having the exact effect they are supposed to have.  This course shows how the field of History has grown and evolved into a professional discipline that demands transparency from those who write it and that makes for a better understanding for everyone who’s interested in learning about it. This class was great because it still left me with unanswered questions like how haven’t modern day historians come to fist fights over how much they disagree on theory and the very nature of History? Spoiler alert, you’re in for quite a treat from Mary Fulbrook who’s going to deploy a light scolding to those who she disagrees with on how some post-modernist characters think History is just fiction and that it doesn’t really matter. But it does! I can say whole heartedly that this course made me believe that History does matter and if you want to find out why it matters so much sign up today! 

Sincerely 

Jeremy Ortega, Historiography Student, Fall 2021 

P.S. Sign up now! I’m not kidding! I’m getting “karma points” from the Professor for this and you will get some great karma returned back to you by doing this for me thanks! 
