Adumbration (n) - offering a shadowy view of something

The past is not completely unknowable and thus subject only to fictionization and romanticism. It casts a shadow, imprinting itself on the present through fragments, lineage and ancestry. The historian gropes through the pall cast by this shadow, but not completely blindly. Far from being a window, a mirror, or a painting, the past leaves an indelible mark on the present like a shadow, the outline of which can be pieced together, sometimes interpreted, sometimes explicitly connected by the self-aware historian. Postmodernism made the ghostly character of the past obvious, almost to the point where the spectre appears non-corporeal, unable to be grasped at all by the historian who must imagine the contours that previous historians had always assumed to be there. But a shadow is hardly an imaginary object, and Fulbrook’s conceptual formulation of historical methodology resurrects history as, if not a flesh-and-blood zombie that walks among us, at least as an apparition that is at once ghostly but also clearly exists semi-palpably and with a direct influence on the present.

- - -

When first starting Fulbrook’s book “Historical Theory,” be sure to pay attention to her examples of historical debates. Her writing is often confusing as it is very conceptual and concerned with theory, but her examples smooth-out the ambiguity that may arise from reading. These examples are the most useful part of the book, as they explicitly connect what her point is to actual historical controversies. As long as you read it somewhat slowly and carefully, her writing is not overly complicated, but it can become so if you’re instead skimming the chapters.
