                                                                                                 Francisco Raby-Mondragon

                                                                                                 History 491
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                  10-18-21


  In chapter four of the book, Historical Theory, we can see that In the chapter, we can see that the “to write history requires active, critical powers of selection, analysis, and representation. From disparate pieces of material, historians form coherent shapes which they present in ways which will be accessible, interesting, even entertaining, for contemporary audiences.(Historical Theory.” Apple Books)”. 
We can also see how the authors add that some historians think that there are very little differences from fiction in today and many even back in the olden days. I like how the authors add this, how they said that historical investigation is more like puzzle-solving within a particular conceptual and methodological framework with different points of view and the topics of history that are important to some people. 
 
  The authors add in this chapter, they say that Hayden White was the most influential voices in the debates over the character of historical representation in the later twentieth century that could change what the narive and if the subject was accurate.  Hayden White, published an article “in 1973, highlighted the ways in which their literary choices or style not only influenced the emotive character of the stories they told, but indeed imposed, through their very form, a particular kind of content.( Historical Theory.” Apple Books)” 
The authors add that White himself did not dispute the possibility of empirically accurate knowledge about the past. The  individual factual statements are about the history that the facts can be true or not true. 


There are two rather different strands to his argument, they are “according to White, operate by selecting and re-producing specific historical facts, encoded in one of four possible literary forms: tragedy, comedy, romance and satire, which in turn endow meaning and significance on the previously disparate facts.( Historical Theory.” Apple Books)” and “Secondly, White suggests that historical accounts produce relationships among these disparate events which were not actually given in the past.( Historical Theory.” Apple Books)”. It is very interesting because we can see how he views the differences that he thinks are two ways, It is cool to see that people have different views and the author adds some importance to it. 
The authors add  that the 'alleged death of metanarrative’, or ‘grand narrative’: that is, of histories which claim to encompass and tell the story of the great unfolding pattern of the past, in the light of some greater metanarrative, some broader philosophical framework.(Historical Theory.” Apple Books)”.  We can see that this was a very important part of history and adds some importance to that. They also add that the overall ‘framing’, or guiding, is the general philosophy of history we know today and even in the future. 
I learned a lot about what history was very different from what I did not know. I didn't know about this before I read this and I found This is very confusing because it shows the tunnel I was studying. 
