First, I believe Fulbrook would warn that the assumption you mention is one that a historian needs to keep in mind. Fulbrook explains pretty thoroughly why historians should not endeavor to create, or even conceive of their own work as, a comprehensive version of history. Historians are only able to convey one perspective, on one subject, filtered through their own paradigms and perspectives. Any historian that attempts to write history exactly as it was fundamentally misunderstands both the capacity and purpose of historical study and writing. This does not mean that there is no point in historical study however, the realization that the nature of the past is not entirely knowable only serves to reinforce the purpose of history, the interpretation and communication of insights gained through study and research. This communication is the foundation of history, as Fulbrook writes, “there can be no historical knowledge at all without some form of systematic investigation and bringing together of disparate traces, placing them in a wider context of interpretation, and some attempt at effective communication of the results” (169). 

Second, Fulbrook would argue that the historian cannot avoid imposing their own paradigms on their work and it is in fact their unique perspective that adds to the overall value of their work. Fulbrook discusses the importance of “varieties of representation designed to achieve a more sophisticated historical understanding of selected aspects of the past in the present” (169) which reinforces the idea that the historian should not be overly concerned with having a perspective but should instead make sure that they are both aware and open about what their perspective, and potential biases are. Fulbrook quotes another historian who gets to the heart of this issue when they wrote, "When the familiar present ceases to be a secure foothold, the past becomes more remote, not less, harder to read, because the only frame of interpretation to a modern visitor is relegated to a distance, out of reach" (174). It is incumbent on the historian to provide only a “frame of interpretation” as opposed to a complete recreation of the past. To pursue the “unattainable goal of mimesis” (169) is Quixotic at best.

On the issue of objectivity and the more footnotes equals better history, Fulbrook would probably argue that the subject the historian needs to be most objective about is their own paradigms and potential biases. The same idea applies to the consumer of historical work as well, as Fulbrook reminds us of Carr’s injunction, “before you read the history, know the historian” (194). 

Only when a historian has an awareness of their own presumptions and beliefs can they fully allow them to set them aside and apply empathy rather than sympathy in their work. For Fulbrook the key is to use empathy as, "a neutral tool for understanding mentalities, quite unrelated to that of the sympathy or otherwise of the historian" (194). Fulbrook uses several quotes from Haskell to explain how the historian must approach their work in this more ‘neutral’ way, “The very possibility of historical scholarship as an enterprise distinct from propaganda requires of its practitioners that vital minimum of ascetic self-discipline that enables a person to do such things as abandon wishful thinking, assimilate bad news, discard pleasing interpretations that cannot pass elementary tests of evidence and logic, and, most important of all, suspend or bracket one’s own perceptions long enough to enter sympathetically into the alien and possibly repugnant perspectives of rival thinkers” (198). This is the key to objectivity in history writing, the number of sources only serve to help ground the historian’s inherently limited grasp of past events. As crucial as proper research and quality sources are, objectivity isn’t gained through more sources, but through more awareness of the paradigms of the historical actor, and of the historian. 
