I don't disagree with you that the postmoderists can bring up some valid arguments. What Mary Fulbrook is trying to get at, both overall in her book and specifically in chapter eight, is that variations of historical representations is what makes history so much more interesting, and even fun, rather than just a chronicle of dates and associated facts. 

That being said, Fulbrook is clear that regardless of which paradigm or theoretical framework you approach history from, you should attempt to recognize *why* it is being studied from that point of view, and once that has been established, it should be explicitly shared with your audience. Every historian has an agenda, and it is okay for those agendas to come across into histories, as long as they are acknowledged.  

Fulbrook mentions that there are a vast variety of forms that historical representations can take. Creative ways that can answer questions or piece together historical puzzles, such as movies or tv shows, can pique the interest of an audience in a way that reading a textbook might not be able to do. People, including you and I, love learning about history that way because it makes us *feel*. Good story tellers can suspend disbelief and make it easier for our immagination to run away with us. This doesn't mean that the content isn't based in fact or historically accurate. It means that the writer of that history has made a conscious choice to represent that story in a specific way in order to get a point across.

Historical objectivity can be tricky too, and more footnotes does not mean more truth or more expertise on the part of the author. Just because a historian uses a large number of sources, it doesn't mean that the sources were automatically good representations of the topic. Unfortunately, sources can be cherry picked to suit the needs the writer. Even when historians practice *good* history and critically analyze sources from multiple viewpoints, it doesn't mean they have acheived supreme objectivity. 

In fact, supreme objectivity is likely a myth, since everyone is swayed by particular biases or political leanings in some form or another. This goes back to Fulbrooks argument regarding paridigmatic and methodological explicitness. A historian should be able to tell their audience how they came to certain conclusions and through which methods and viewpoints. By using critical analyses of other works, be it primary or secondary, they themselves should accept that their work will be subject to the same potential scrutiny and debate, which then can lead to more questions and potentially clearer answers.

A few questions:
1. Is true objectivity ever achievable? Does it depend on the topic being discussed?
2. Does the average consumer of historical representations care about explicit bias? Would it be welcomed?
