Historians must, necessarily, when creating a historical account occasionally resort to literary devices and narrative to write something readable. The form of the representation they use is important no doubt, but it is not all there is to historical representation. When trained historians “emplot” their own narrative on history, as postmodernist allege, they are not simply conjuring history from thin air. The self-aware historian knows he or she is approaching the sources from their own historical context as students of the contemporary world. The historian knows that their own analytic paradigms, their own biases and intrinsic preferences will color what history they ultimately tell. It is up to the self-aware historian to recognize that it is impossible to shed such bias to be truly “objective.” But the self-aware historian also recognizes that “progress” in furthering historical understanding is engendered when interpretations by historians of different paradigmatic pursuasians collide. It is not so much the work of individual historians that furthers understanding of the past as the disagreements between the puzzles cobbled-together by historians ‘picking up the pieces’ of the refuse of history scattered through the archives.

Issues arise when historians take their accounts too seriously in themselves. Without the larger context of their work, not just within the same paradigmatic analysis but also outside, it is too easy to see “objectivity” as a goal capable of being approached by a single historian connecting ostensible historical “facts” to meaning as if in an intellectual vacuum. The historian must “emplot” their conception of historical narrative to some extent when dealing with the fragmented pieces of the past they stumble upon in the archives. This is not the issue so much as is the belief that this alone constitutes discovery of a historical “truth” and not just another stone that must be carefully shorn and polished to fit and mesh with other works of history, within and across paradigms.

- - -

The sources cited by a historian as support for historical narratives and claims are themselves paradigmatically-contingent. Whether the historian focuses more on the individual or larger social and political forces depends on the persuasion of the individual historian, but also on the contemporary context they are writing in. Which approaches to historical investigation that are preferred are dependent on the wider social and political context that determines what gets published and who gets to write it. There is no “free market of ideas” (as it is often characterised) in intellectual debates. What is popular as an explanation of historical accounts in one time period, in one country and social context could be entirely unpopular in another -- popularity of an account is hardly enough to determine the ‘truthiness’ as compared to other accounts. Cross-paradigm determination of truth is not as simple as weighing the facts of one against the other; what is focused on and what is highlighted as historically-important is also itself a function of the (many) paradigms at play.

When searching for historical “truth,” then, what is important is not just at historians are aware of (and declare) their own political biases and paradigmatic lens of analysis, but also that they are aware of the larger differences of historical interpretation between “language communities [and] historically situated collective endeavors.” The volume of citations is not itself a measure of “objectivity.” It is the interplay and synthesis of different schools of historical analysis and investigations of where they overlap and where they diverge that understanding develops and “objectivity” such as it is lay.
