Chapter 8.  
A key issue about historical representation in general, as Fulbrook states, is that “historical consciousness is an inevitable part of the human condition” (143). Human beings in all societies, in a collective manner, exhibit traits of landscapes of memory or some type of knowledge of past activities or physical representations. 

There are a different variety of representations and a myriad of ways that historians employ towards posing questions trying to gain a better understanding of a wider context of events. How, to whom, and for what purposes are these stories told becomes an argument against how ‘objective’ or how close to the ‘truth’ the interpretation is.  

The answer to this is that although at times historians use emotional involvement to produce empathy and sympathies (both rooted in common humanity) to illustrate an event, “there is more to historical investigation and argument than just emplotment or the imposition of a narrative as a cultural convention, arguments and interpretations have to be open to rational debate and amendment in light to netted evidence, and that there are general casual relationships between disparate events in the past which can be explored by historians in the present (144-145).  

The modes of representation employed do impact an audience and different perspectives produce a ‘value of freedom’ or ‘objectivity’. These systematic representations can “bring together disparate pieces of evidence” and are designed to “achieve a more sophisticated historical understanding of selected aspects of the past in the present” (145). 

Fulbrook argues against the postmodernist skepticism ‘that there is no reason for history because the true truth is unattainable, and stories are just fictious and are used to manipulate the audience that it is intended for’. She states that “representations of selected aspects of the past emphatically does not mean the pursuit of the unattainable goal of mimesis, or the attempt to provide some form of exact copy in the present of aspects of a lost past” (145).  

The choice, of course, is made towards the historian's purpose and the intended audience. Scholarly works are targeted at students, documentaries towards the common man, and both are used to draw emotion of some type. Furthermore, emplotment does not mean that the information is fictitious. Historical knowledge is “subject to systematic investigation, brings together different traces, placing them into a wider context of interpretation, and an attempt at effective communication, there is criteria to determine degrees of adequacy in different accounts for different purposes (145). Regardless, claims must be rooted in historical knowledge. 

Emotional involvement is a powerful tool that invokes action towards further pursuits to investigation. Modes of representation change in time and are contested, it provides all manners of insights, and has different aims. Sometimes historians are explicit or implicit about their narrative, discissions regarding selection and omission must be made, it's up to the writer and what they are prioritizing towards making their argument. This does not mean that historians are getting it wrong, it's just a choice that historians make and for this no two historians' views will match even within the same inquiry. 

Postmodernists argue against “the possibility of finding is rather just imposing stories; however, historical representations are just representations of selected features, not an attempted reproduction of some mythical and unattainable totality” (152). Fulbrook says that although “historians artificially construct the beginnings of theirs stories; and may construct these beginnings in very different ways” (157) Style and technique is different from questions of testability and truth, but this does not make the accounts just literature, the point is transmission. It's all about making choices, whether it is to try to be neutral or devise. 

 
Chapter 9 
The common appeal to evidence fallacy that Fulbrook is trying to dissolve is that readers of history must be able to question historical objectivity by questioning and debating the interpretations and sources.  

Fulbrook argues that sources are in some way considered ‘value neutral’ and ‘objective’ but does nothing towards discovering the ‘truth’ if there are unexamined foundations. For one to be objective does not require neutrality because ‘objectivity’ rises from assumptions and interpretations of one historical writer and is subject to qualifications and evaluations which opens analysis for ‘value freedom’. Mostly, historians need to be transparent about their work in respect of their position, experience, and views. Understanding a mentality of the historian produces empathy and sympathy, one as a neutral tool for understanding mentality, while the latter provides the motives and ideas a historian is trying to understand. 

This produces a question then of cultural appropriation, can historians that do not belong to that culture produce insights without biases. The response to this is that authenticity of understanding comes from the multitude of knowledge about traditions and methodology, and outsider insights can give denser understanding, opening new avenues of interpretation and investigation. Deploying emotional involvement produces empathy and sympathy for marginalized groups and aims to represent the past and uncovers complexities. It produces a wider variety of narratives. 

All degrees of perspectives have subjectivity and personal preferences in which they employ to redefine objectivity in diverse approaches. Paradigms to some extent speak across language communities. It all depends on the theoretical approach taken. Concerns are different person to person and choosing a framework will factor these assumptions into the equation. The key is to be open to change in the light of new evidence and arguments, however, “the burden of explanation will come to rest in different places” (183). 

More sources does not mean that the evidence is more objective. We must remember that “facts are a result of the historians own political or other views” (170). These facts are based on the historians' values and morals, which dictated what type of research they do. Regardless, facts must conform to rules of evidence and either stand or fall upon disconfirmation. Some sources may have not had that treatment or have been left unquestioned. As things change and more evidence is brought to light, some sources and citations are more examples of past interpretations rather than present. Sources must be critically examined to determine reliability and relevance to the assumption and interpretation.  

 