Many students assume this article is trying to argue that historians should pay more attention to the role women in history. The article agrees, but the main point is actually much more interesting and nuanced. What is it?
	The first thing that came to mind in reading this article was the quote, “In its most recent usage, “gender” seems to have first appeared among American feminists who wanted to insist on the fundamental social quality of distinctions based on sex” (Scott. Pg. 3). 
  This stood out to me the most because of the way this definition seems to stay on the surface of what gender is and how it applies to society. I think that the way we think of “gender” today is very different to how it was used 5 or even 10 years ago. 
  Gender, as Scott mentions is used to distinguish the bases of sex. The world in which sex is discussed separates men from women as Scott mentions, “This usage insists that the world of women is part of the world of men, created in and by it. This usage rejects the interpretive utility of the idea of separate spheres, maintaining that to study women in isolation perpetuates the fiction that one sphere, te experience of one sex, has little or nothing to do with the other” (Scott. Pg. 5). 
  Theres the way of thinking that involves separating the two sexes into their own worlds, and the discussion of feminism as a seperate topic that only revolved in the world of women, but with what Scott is saying, the worlds are starting to be thought of as a two worlds colliding situation and that the discussion of feminism and of sex and gender should be disscussed in all relms. 
  This article seems to talk about gender and the ways in whicch eminism is viewed and talked about, but there is a separate underlying discussion of the way feminism and the discussion of sex and gender are applied to places of power and politics. Scott makes a point in stating that the ways in which these subjects are talked about should not apply in the same light and way politics is. 
  She states, “As social historians turned to new objects of study, gender was relevant for such topics as women, children, families, and gender ideologies. This usage of gender, in other words, refers only to those areas- both structural and ideological-involving relations between the sexes.
  Because, on the face of it, war, diplomacy, and high politics have not been explicitly about those relationships, gender seems not to apply and so continues to be irrelevant to the thinking of historians concerned with issues of politics and power” (Scott. Pg. 6). 
  She talks about how the ideology of politics is separate from the ones involving gender. She also talks about another author whose study of feminism and the ways in which it's discussed in modern society differs from the way it was talked about generations ago and I believe that ideology still exists today. 
  She mentions, “For Shulamith Firestone, reproduction was also the “bitter trap” for women. In her more materialist analysis, however, liberation would come with transformations in reproductive technology, which might in some not too distant future eliminate the need for women’s bodies as the agents of species reproduction” (Scott, Pg. 7). 
  This way of thinking still applies today, which is unfortunate because even though women are looked at as more than just “bodies of reproduction”, it's still seen, especially in older generations who didn't have any other outlet of expressing that women are more than what the old time definition says. 
  In Submassion, I think that this article covered all the bases when talking about sex and the ideaologies ofgender and feminism, but I think its also important to note that this article also talked about how the definitions and the ways in which the topics of gender and feminism are disscussed have changed, and also the political affiliations of sex and gender and how that what once was two seperate spheres became one.

