I believe the nuanced portion of this article is pointing to an idea that the goal of “Gender History” should not be to study gender within history, however, to use gender almost as a tool to examine events of the past. I would argue this would be a different lens to view power struggles through as Scott describes the imbalance between men and women as one of domination; and what is domination if not a power imbalance. Furthermore, if the origins of male and female relations can be understood it might provide a doorway through which to understand history.  

Scott slowly brings the nuance to the forefront of the mind by explaining the various ways in which gender has been studied within history. One of the most interesting of these is the exploration of sexual relationships within a historical context. This argument boils down to the concept that “men’s desire to dominate” stems from an inherent psychological need to try and control the means of reproduction for the species which they are detached from biologically. Furthermore, Scott expands this to easily the most core pillar of human communication, that being language. In her argument she gives the example sentence of “Man has sex with girl.” Breaking this down into its grammatical parts of subject, action, object. In that way the woman is no different from an object of sentence such as a ball in the sentence “Man throws a ball.” While this argument is indeed interesting, I would say it is the least relevant and compelling of all of them as the sentence could just as easily read “Woman has sex with man.” Thus, flipping the objectivity of the sentence as well as who has the gender that has the privilege of serving as the sentences noun. 

The argument I found the most compelling was that gender relations developed as a result of economic activity. Firstly, I find it interesting that most of if not all human actions are taken as a result of economic thought, for example risk vs reward as well as concepts of production, trade, and hierarchy. As it is highly speculated that written language was invented to serve an economic purpose as keeping records, it would make sense that other core parts of society would hold their origins in economics. This theory could be applied to women having far less freedoms during periods when they were considered as lesser producers. However, in difficult times such as those as both world wars women were needed to fill the shoes of the men who had left to war in order to maintain production within the economy. Women gained suffrage with the 19th amendment in 1920, only 2 years after the first world war ended. Some correlation can be noted in these two historical occurrences, however as with all thing's causation cannot entirely be determined.  

 

1) In what ways has gender relations evolved over time; and how do religious and cultural developments affect them? 

2) Through what means can we differentiate the impact of various forces on the development of gender relations? 