Reading reflection

Many students assume this article is trying to argue that historians should pay more attention to the role women in history. The article agrees, but the main point is actually much more interesting and nuanced. What is it?

Yes, it is true that the article does make the case for historians to pay more attention but the main point I believe is that we need do pay attention to gender and include it as a category to better understand power dynamics between the sexes and to get a clear picture of the Historical Narrative. I found it very interesting that this article had been written in 1986 and Gender had already begun to take a prominent role in academia and was helping with the piecing together of the historical narrative and the power dynamics that are taking place between the sexes. “An interest in class, race, and gender signaled first, a scholars commitment to a history that included stories of the oppressed and an analysis of the meaning and nature of their oppression and second, scholarly understanding that inequalities of power are organized along at least three axes.”(Scott,1054) I’m going to be honest there is a lot of information in this article that was kind of intimidating to try to make sense of all at one with regards to how gender works. The author was able to jump from describing gender as a tool for feminists to help write women’s history Scott also goes on to ask the question “How does gender give meaning to the organization and perception of historical knowledge? The answers depend on gender as an analytic category.” (Scott,1055) Scott goes on to say that historians use gender in two categories the first one was descriptive and the second was causal these two approaches seem to be opposed to each other. Scott later goes on to say that recently gender when used with regards to feminist or women’s studies that gender was used neutrally or objectively as opposed to using women which brings a subjective nature to the research. Gender is explained by Scott as “Instead, gender becomes a way of denoting “cultural constructions” the entirely social creation of ideas about appropriate roles for women and men. It is a way of referring to the exclusively social origins of the subjective identities of men and women.” (Scott,1056) I think that the main takeaway from the article is that gender is crucial to examining a historical narrative between men and women and Scott lays it out well in the article with how gender is a social construct and an important tool to see the power relations in societies and how they change and evolve over time. 
