Scott argues that gender should be an analytic category of history, but makes it clear that this type of historical study is limited.  After many references to other historians and even psychoanalysts and economists, the point that Scott seems to make is that not only should gender be scrutinized in terms of how it limits historical study, but it should also include, more broadly, studies on race, ethnicity and class.  Scott argues that historians need to “scrutinize methods of analysis, clarify our operative assumptions, and explain how we think change occurs” (p. 1067). She also makes the case that gender should be used to decode social meanings and to understand complex huma relationships rather than focus on the individuality of specifically female historical study.

She goes on to unpack many of the different historical theories on gender.  She states that *feminist historical theory* either adheres to continuing the strict definitions of male and female and their goal becomes how to homogenize the historical theories of male and female spheres.  She also notes that *psychoanalytic historical thought* focuses on the symbolic enculturation that begins at childhood and evolves to become how individuals are defined and are therefore participating in their larger social construct.

Scott also argues for more substantial explanations of gender instead of focusing on a single origin point of an historical question or idea.  Historical focus should instead be on interrelationships, individual subjects, and social organizations to understand how gender works and how change occurs (p. 1067-1068). *Gender* has been socially defined as differences between the sexes and is the primary way of categorizing relationships of power.  Symbolic meanings behind representations of women and how they are expressed in religious, educational, scientific, legal and political doctrines are how gender is typically framed.

*Scott questions if these gendered histories are the products of social consensus or of conflict.*  She states that the biological sexuality of individuals are perceived as rooted in enculturation, and are related to a range of socially derived actions (such socially-defined activities, social groups, and specific cultural and symbolic representations).

**The main point** that Scott is making is that politics is the **one area** in which gender can be used to study history.  She explicitly states that gender is the primary field of articulating power, that is only defined in the narrowest terms by the workings of political motivations and causes.  She cites *specific examples* of the issues of kingship and femininity (or the rejection of female leadership in a male-dominated political structure), in the French Revolution’s rejection of women in leadership roles and in women’s abilities to have agency in their own families (repealing the divorce laws), and the formation of modern industrial governments that were implementing policies made to “keep women in their place” (p. 1072).

*For further thought:*

Why do the various historical theories about gender and its role focus solely on the history of women?

How has gender and its defining points changed and how will this change historical theories about it?
