# Gender Histories #

Joan Scott is arguing that yes, historians should pay more attention to women in history, but; there is a distinction between paying more attention and potentially dismissing other histories and studying gender as a tool to understand the differences of the *sexes*, and that meaning, throughout history. This means that although gender studies in history is important, but if you’re going to look at gender, you should look at other human factors like class, race, ethnicities because ultimately those histories count too.

When looking at the use of gender in history, it goes to follow that only one gender’s (men’s) history matters more than others, as the other genders simply cohabitates in the bigger picture; “the world of women is part of the world of men, created in and by it.” Scott points out that when gender used to be studied, it was “only relevant for topics about women, children, families, and gender ideologies,” meaning that the *only* relationship women had towards history was dependent on men—which I’m sure many prominent female historical figures (Joan of Arc, Harriet Tubman, Rosa Parks to name a few) wouldn’t appreciate. Because truly, the existence of women is not all dependent on men, so to compartmentalize their roles in history as dependent on sex is unfair and skewed. When the role of women in history is to only be connected to children, family, and gender ideologies, Scott points out that it “leaves no way to connect the concept (or individual) to other social systems of economy, politics, or power.”

Scott brings up language as the construct of gender identity, stating that “Like words themselves, subjective identities are processes of differentiation, requiring the suppression of ambiguities and opposite elements in order to assure (and create the illusion of) coherence and common understanding.” This essentially means that words like “women” and “men” imply differentiations in “feminine” and “masculine” when both qualities exist in “women” and “men.” Those differences between women and men become “the subject” that Scott is troubled by, because in theory it universalizes the categories and relationship of male and female. This is how we end up with the overall subject of history, and the sub-histories of women, people of color, poor people, or anyone that isn’t a while, cis male.

My favorite quote from the entire reading is when Scott states, *“We need a refusal of the fixed and permanent quality of the binary opposition,”* because it’s like a Modern-Enlightenment thought to revolutionize our view and recording of history now. It wasn’t until the last 40-50 years that we have become more critical of history in terms of gender and its role in history. I like that Scott brought up the fact that we as historians have not thoroughly studies the connection between authoritarian regimes and the control of women; as someone who isn’t sure what she wants to do with her history education, it lets me know that there is still so much to learn and teach. So, hey, quarter life crisis averted.

*Questions for the class*

1. The reading was focused on gender histories, but why do the historical theories presented about gender and its role in history focus only on women?

2. When Scott brings up *language* as a construct between the antagonization between men and women's histories, how do we feel about that? Does it come down to language, or is it context?
