# Reflections on Schwartz & Cook, Archives 

I’ve always conceptualized archives as the “raw stuff” of history – the artifacts, documents, and other physical items that together can be used to gather information about the past. At first glance, these dens of primary material may seem safe from the gaze of historical bias, but this article reminds us that our commonly held perception of archives as neutral data sites is faulty on a number of levels. 

Schwartz and Cook remind us that archives are both constrained by the social, cultural, and political conditions of their eras and that they serve to project those conditions forward based on the selective data stored within. Therefore, rather than acting as a kind of neutral compass used to understand the past objectively,  archives reflect power relations and dictate historical memory. ***Those who hold power and authority within a given society will be the one’s deciding what to archive and what not to archive, thereby skewing historical memory in their favor. Moreover, archivists themselves hold a tremendous amount of power, as they gain the ability to determine who may access history, what to label history, and how to preserve history.***  So, power determines what is archived to begin with, and following that power is preserved as a part of the practice of archiving. 

Speaking of which, this article touches on the science of archiving in an interesting way. Given the long running discussion as to whether history is an art or a science, it’s intriguing that the very basis of evidence based science is questioned here. We tend to take for granted that science and its conclusions about the world are correct because it is objective, but in the postmodern landscape we simply don’t have that luxury. Therefore science, including the science involved in historical archiving, are only as reliable as the fallible humans _actually doing_ the science. This may at first leave one confused as to where any kind of scientific legitimacy ought to stem from, but I quite like Schwartz and Cook’s answer to this conundrum – _legitimacy shouldn’t (and can’t) be founded on a veneer of objectivity, but rather on the ongoing critical inquiry into scientific findings._ ***Given the cherry picked data sets archives present us with, and the socially constrained conditions under which they function, it is effectively impossible for historians to present a completely accurate portrait of the past using only archival data. However, archives remain a useful tool for the critical investigation into historical narratives and power relations*** as we ask ourselves questions like “Why was this document deemed worthy enough to preserve?” and “Who made the decision to archive this poem and why?” 

Perhaps the most damaging impacts of viewing archives as neutral sites of truth is in underestimating just how vital a role archives play in actively shaping memory within a given society. ***Historians typically ground their analysis of the past in the data contained within archives, which as we’ve now learned is often incomplete and skewed, resulting an incomplete and skewed retelling of past events. This retelling becomes the narrative we’re all taught in primary school, which in turn begins to shape our national and cultural identities.*** While I know this isn’t a perfect example, the thought that comes to my mind regarding historical preservation and the shaping of national identity is the architecture of our National Mall. The most iconic buildings in D.C., from the Capitol Building to the White House, are deliberately designed to resemble Ancient Greek and Roman architecture, their white marble color owing to the appearance of Greco-Roman ruins. _This insinuates that the USA is taking up the mantle of the next great civilization, following in Greece and Rome’s footsteps._ Interestingly though, Roman and Greek buildings were painted in their day, but _we’ve deliberately made our great buildings appear like white marble because that’s how Greco-Roman architecture is perceived within our historical memory._ 


Questions:

_1. Do you feel that modern technology and access to numerous digital archives offers historians a path toward what Thomas Richards called “a utopian space of comprehensive knowledge ... not a building, nor even a collection of texts, but the collectively imagined junction of all that was known or knowable…”? Can access to multiple digital archives help historians navigate the bias imbedded in physical archives?_

_2. It seems like what isn’t archived is almost if not more important to understanding historical narratives and power relations as what is archived. How can historians seek to unearth forgotten or erased histories when most of our archival data excludes these stories?_






