Like with other histories we have learned about, archivists are subject to biases just like everyone else. Some is unintentional and we learned that a lot is intentional. A detail I found quite interesting was the fact that much of the women’s role was, from what the article makes is sound like, completely disregarded and/or destroyed from most archives. 

It is the powerful that create and preserve history so if they do not want something to be remembered, they have it removed. Powerful people want to strip out whatever makes them look bad or can cause them to lose power. On the other hand, archivists are able to make many of the decisions on what they feel need to be preserved on their own. In other words, “dealers’ choice” is why archives can never be perfect.

I believe historians can be mostly accurate when recreating the history, they are researching. I would imagine that about 75% of an archive’s contents is in great shape with no tampering and the other 25% is subject to tampering of some sort. Throughout the article I kept thinking of an archive pertaining to the presidents, most Americans would like to keep their legacy on the “good side” of history so the archivists would be inclined to bury or even destroy a hurtful note a president had written. 

This is also gets into the question of “can we ever really know what happened in the past?” which is no. Even the most immaculate archive like the National Archive is not going to be able to give the whole history. The National Archive is constantly being added to but there is no way they can give the full picture of an event or person. What they can do is provide as much evidence as possible and that is the only “accuracy” people may ever get in that time.

Archivists are the keepers of knowledge; they are the ones that can bring evidence of falsehoods, or they can corroborate someone’s story. Archivists play an important role because they can decide what is remembered and shape how we remember events. Archivists may not be the ones publishing the history books, but they are the ones helping the historian create the story that people hear because they can choose what to give to the historian.
