Archives are inherently distorted. This is an unavoidable consequence of their nature as a human creation. Schwartz and Cook detail how archivists make explicit decisions on what is worthy of memorializing, while emphasizing how limiting this practice is. Schwartz and Cook's discussion of records from the First World War illustrates how archives have traditionally recorded history in a way that focuses its attention on the powerful, embracing a power centric perspective. These archival choices have served to severely limit and distort modern historians’ ability to use an archive to develop a comprehensive view of the past. 

Distortion is compounded by the nature of the professionalization of the archival process, reflected which Schwartz and Cook highlight saying, “archivists have thus had a vested interest in perceiving (and promoting) the archive as a value-free site of document collection and historical inquiry, rather than a site for the contestation of power, memory, and identity” (Schwartz and Cook, 6).  This reinforces the notion that archives and archivists deal with “evidence” in an objective way. Schwartz and Cook reject this idea, arguing instead that “this linguistic inclination simply masks the exercise of power over memory and identity, and thus makes that power all the more effectively wielded” (Schwartz and Cook, 14). Understanding this is central to understanding the nature of archives while forcing us to consider not only what information is included in archives, but what information is excluded.  

This idea helped to solidify the idea of postmodernism for me, specifically that there isn’t always a way to find objective truth as it is not possible to archive everything. Schwartz and Cook also discuss the exclusion of ordinary people’s perspectives by prioritizing the broader subjects of politics, war, and power. This helped me to appreciate the value of the microhistories we have read about before as essential to pursuing objective and comprehensive truth. It also helped me to see clearly that a historian using an archive to look at the past can be accurate in the information they convey but cannot achieve a comprehensive and complete understanding of events using only an archive. This is the justification for Schwartz and Cook’s assertion that “The point is for archivists to (re)search thoroughly for the missing voices, for the complexity of the human or organizational functional activities under study during appraisal, description, or outreach activities, so that archives can acquire and reflect multiple voices, and not, by default, only the voices of the powerful” (Schwartz and Cook, 17).

Understanding this forces us to reject the idea that the historical archive and archivist is a neutral actor, working in the background to document events. This article does an excellent job in explaining how and why archives and archivists must be considered active participants in shaping society. From focusing on issues of politics and the powerful at the expense of ordinary people and marginalized groups, to shaping the narrative in conflicts like WWI, archivists have made explicit decisions on what information and viewpoints are preserved for future generations. Without recognizing historical archives as active shapers of history we are limited to the historical perspectives archivists of the past chose to perpetuate. Accepting the view that archives are social constructs enables us to move closer to objectivity by forcing us to seek out additional viewpoints. Otherwise scholars and archivists are doomed engage in a system that Schwartz and Cook call “the blind leading the blind” (Schwartz and Cook, 6).
