  Given the fact that human beings are inherently biased any activity we perform will likewise be biased. This is of course true even of archivist. These are the people responsible for storing and cataloging much of the information and relics from the past. But the real question is how do they decide what information to keep and what information to not keep?  

The people who control our history control the national understanding of our past. Without an understanding of our ancestors, how can we possibly to hope to understand what we are and where we came from? As currators and archivist control the objects of the past they have the ability to be gate keepers of information and thus change our understanding of the past. In that way they can create and destroy whatever histories they want simply by choosing what relics to keep what to not. Even if archivist aren’t concsiouly choosing to ignore or keep certain artifacts based on their preferences they are still more likely than not to keep things that are related to their version of history.  

The only real way to be “accurate” about reporting the past for archivist would be to keep every single artifact or document. Clearly they don’t have the resources to maintain an infinite library so they must pick and choose what to keep; and thus cannot be entirely accurate in their reporting of history. Furthermore, it should not be the job of an archivist to be accurate about history given that they should not be interpreting the items that they keep. It should be the point of historians to read and interpret the meaning of the artifacts. We can however run into a similar problem with having historians interpret the meaning of objects from the prast given that they also have biases. It is more likely however that trained historians would be more neutral in their standing when interpreting documents.  

Archivists are active shapers of society in that they control the future of our understanding of the past. This is because by picking and choosing what objects to keep and which to not they can effectively change the course of our view on the past. Given the fact that most archives are private owned collections these gatekeepers can even simply reject anyone else from viewing the artifacts that they keep. Even publicly owned collections more likely than not would require some form of verification to ensure that only the qualified would be the only ones viewing the collection. In that way even the public collections are restricted from entirely public access. 

1) What are the criteria for keeping and discarding of historical artifacts? 

2) In what way can we ensure objectivity in the way we choose what artifacts to keep? 