The sources archivists choose to preserve are dependent upon the episteme that the archivist inhabits. He or she’s prior understanding of history, their implicit assumptions about what does and does not constitute valid historical fact, as well as other conscious and subconscious biases contribute to what an archivist values and ultimately what they choose to designate as worthy of preservation.

The documents and “facts” chosen by archivists ultimately themselves construct historical fact rather than reflecting a universal historical truth. Records and archived documents are utilized as sources of authority, to defend interests and give legitimacy to various institutions and governments. Archives, while themselves found in the “background” in dusty annexes in museum basements and the like, are inherently shapers of the society they are a part of. It is from these archival documents that legitimation for human actions of all kinds is “found” in the historical record and promulgated.

When utilizing archival information, historians must be aware of the limitations of those archives and be careful of taking their claims at face value. Conclusions drawn from these records are “accurate” insofar as they match the preserved history, but what is chosen to be preserved is not always wholly reflective of what actually happened. There are often multiple perspectives of historical events, overlapping and contradicting each other and sourced from varied individuals and institutions whose trustworthiness it is the job of the archivist to decide on. Because it is impossible for archivists to preserve each and every bit of historical documentation, inevitably some perspectives are left out of the compiled record, whether because it is considered untrustworthy, uninteresting or of marginal utility by the archivist.

Given that historical understanding is often largely based ultimately on archives for verification, does this mean that all of history is fundamentally constructed and not actually “accurate” at all?

How do we know that there isn’t an invisible span of history hidden somewhere in the known historical record where there existed no documents to archive and thus is lost to us? How much of world history is unknown to us modern people as a result of a lack of documentation of oral histories? Are there discontinuities in the historical, archival record just like there are discontinuities in the geologic record as a result of the erosion? There are vast spans of time in the geologic record that are completely lost, many thousands of fossils once preserved ground down to dust and dispersed irrevocably out of our reach. Are there ancient societies that similarly have been lost to the historical record as a result of cataclysm, war and civilizational collapse?
