## Archival Power Reflection

As the article states, archives are social constructs which serve the purposes of those individuals or organiatizons who create the archives and curate them. As such, the actual content of the archives depends on whatever those intentions or purposes are, that is, the information in the archives is often skewed in favor of these ends. Therefore, it is in this manner that archives are rendered to ultimately be incapable of be purely or absolutely objective. This skewing of archival inforrmation need not be conscious or intentional, and often are neither. Archives are the work of flawed human hands, just as is everything else which does not precede human productivity, and as such are flawed creations. 

This being the case, I would say that it is impossible for a historian to be *absolutely* accurate in reporting the past. My conception of historical accuracy is that it exists in a spectrum. Some commentaries of the past may be completely inaccurate and downright false, and they can be as accurate as humanly possible insofar as the archive allows it to be; but more often than not, histories vary in degree from more accurate to less accurate, with the goal (usually) of being as accurate as it can be (and of course, these attempts likewise have varying degrees of success). This is because archives, upon which histories rely for their accounting of the past, are by their very nature distorted, skewed or otherwise biased sources of information.

Archives should not be considered background operators in the writing of history, but rather, should be seen as being at the forefront of shaping historical reality. This is because archives are the closest connection to the past which we have as humans; a past which is long gone and never to be seen again. There is no way to empirically observe the past as it happens, only in retrospect so long as it exists within living memory. When the past survives the extent of living memory, archives are necessary for that retrospective observation. As a result, the informational content of the archive becomes reality for the historian because no other reality of the past exists or can exist once living memory reaches its limits. This ought to be acknowledged and understood first and foremost in the fields of history, because knowing how past reality is formed is just as important as knowing that past reality itself

Being that archives are by their nature biased sources which are the basis of history and our only connection to the distant past, what is the baseline by which we measure "historical accuracy" if the pure truth of the past is wholly unattainable outside of the archives?

Is it possible that the informational content of our archives, which we deem as "factual" and "accurate" actually be egregious misinterpretations of what actually happened in the past, as they had happened? If so, is it possible to even answer whether or not that archival informational content *are* egregious misinterpretations of the past? Theoretically speaking, if the answer is yes and it turns out that archival informational content are egregious misinterpretations, what does that mean for history as we know it, being based on this archival informational content?