Fulbrook describes metanarratives, or metaphysical master narratives, as the broad framing or general philosophy of history. This didn’t fully make sense at first but eventually I understood a metanarrative to be the general understanding of the worldview of the historian, how they conceive of progress, the philosophical assumptions they apply. Fulbrook explains this by discussing how 19th and 20th century metanarratives all shared a general worldview consisting of a progression from “worse to better” and were variations on the overarching Judeo-Christian metanarrative from Fall through Final Judgement. Fulbrook then uses Marxism as an example of how one can "disentangle larger metaphysical views about the purpose and goals of history from more specific, historically grounded, propositions” (75). 

Fulbrook describes metanarratives as dead because metanarratives take a view of history that assumes there is a “single ‘real’ story” that the historian is trying to analyze and explain. Because it is impossible for every person to share “one great story about the past” (76) any attempt to overlay a metanarrative over a specific historical event is only an attempt to conceptualize the event under a modern perspective. 

Fulbrook acknowledges that while a singular comprehensive all-inclusive history is impossible, there are partial narratives that attempt to explain one particular historical endpoint among many. This underlies Fulbrook’s disagreement with Jenkin’s assertion that postmodernist views on history have basically destroyed the viability of all historical knowledge. Jenkins basically stretches the argument that we cannot share a single grand story of history to assert that any set of relationship between historical events exist only in the mind of the historian” (66). Fulbrook refutes Jenkins, and White, by applying his logic to the rise of Hitler to power in Germany and the Holocaust, outright rejecting the assertion that a connection between the two is impossible and goes on to explain that denying any connection between events that happened at different times is “"directly counter to the way most fully functioning human beings exist and live in the world" (80). 

When Fulbrook says that historians are trying to solve puzzles she is attempting to explain that nature of historical work. While it is impossible to entirely remove one’s own perspective from the analysis of past events it is possible to assess aspects of the past "within pre-existing collective frameworks of assumed knowledge, theories, and moot points or dark spots for further investigation" (81). Fulbrook concludes that it is entirely achievable for a historian to effectively analyze past events and get an indication of “the current historiographical state of play” (84).
