Regarding the “death of metanarrative”: What does Fulbrook mean by metanarrative? Why is it dead? Why does it matter?

It's interesting to note here that Fulbrook mentions the subsidiary narratives not being a part of the overall master narrative. It's, in a way, a peak at the point she makes later about historians being like puzzle workers, and each piece of history is putting together the overall bigger picture of the purpose of historians. She says, “In other words: the death of the grand narrative does not automatically entail the death of all narratives which lay some claim to explaining, in a manner subject to imperial disconfirmation (on which more later), selected features of some aspect of the past. The rejection of the possibility of one master narrative does not logically and entail that the multiplicity of competing subsidiary narratives are all equally valid (or, conversely, all equally invented). The rejection of metaphysical master narratives does not mean that there is no possibility of comparing competing ‘partial narratives’, developing rational grounds for claiming that one interpretation (of a particular set of issues or events) better accounts for the (theoretically netted) ‘facts’ and ‘evidence’ then another” (Fulbrook. Pg. 58). In other words, what I think she is getting at here, is that the so-called “death of the metanarrative” is about forgetting or putting aside the bigger picture and looking more closely at the details of the subsidiary narratives.

Why does Fulbrook disagree with Jenkins? How does she refute his claim that history is essentially fiction?
It's interesting to see history in the light of it being facts to one perception, and stories or fictions to another. I think that by looking at history as fictions as Jenkins does is to look at history from the lens of details and emotions, understanding the events and people of the past by putting yourself in their positions to experience the past. Then by looking at history how Fulbrook sees it, is by looking at it from a critical focal point. Taking out the emotions to only understand the when, where, how, and not so much the why. Fulbrook states, “We face a conundrum: ‘facts’ alone are not enough; there is not an arguably cannot be such thing as a universal vocabulary for analyzing and redescribing the past. But at the same time we want to participate in an intersubjective conversation about salient, selective aspects of the past, and this is a conversation which demands a shared vocabulary” (Fulbrook. Pg. 97).
We discussed the differences between thinking critically and emotionally when looking at history in previous discussions, and it's interesting to see the topic come up again here.

Fulbrook says that historians are really just trying to solve puzzles. What puzzle is she trying to solve?
I love looking at history from different lenses and I talked about this concept of looking and investigating history by focusing on the individual pieces and putting them together to form the overall picture. Is it fair to say that by looking and studying history in this way is a part of thinking critically and emotionally? Fulbrook explains it better by saying, “Similarly on a much smaller, everyday scale: very few individuals would assume that there is no intrinsic connections between developments in their own lives which are not simply figments of their own retrospective imaginations (gaining certain qualifications, preparing for and doing well add an interview, and then being appointed to a coveted job, for example; or suffering bereavement or financial strain, finding it difficult to sleep or to take decisions appropriately, with knock-on effects on work or domestic relationships). One of the totally disorientating and actually miserable aspects of a disease entailing the loss of memory, such as Alzheimer's, is the very way in which such connections between past and present are lost - indeed, in which the details of the recent past becomes simply a  cloudy fog, a series of moods and their aftermath rather than a memory of what caused them. Thus to posit the case that there are no real connections ‘out there’ between events at earlier and later dates is to make a very strong claim, which, I would contend, runs directly counter to the way most fully functioning human beings exist and live in the world.” (Fulbrook. Pg. 66). I said in one of my previous posts that historians are like puzzle workers, in that each event and detail, each individual person are just pieces of the overall purpose that historians are faced with, and I think that it's interesting to read something that was essentially the way that I like to think and study about history. Fulbrook also stated that I found perplexing, “Within given parameters historical explanations and interpretations whether or not they are written in narrative form or presented in more analytic style are subject to the imperial reputation” (Fulbrook. Pg. 53). I think this is another way of thinking about history in the way that history will always be seen in different ways, in different lights. There will never be a time in our society where history will be seen in the same light, history by nature is open for interpretation no matter the form it's set in.
