# Historical Theory II #
According to Fulbrook, metanarrative means the “grand narrative.” It’s basically the story that encompasses *all* the stories of the past. The reason Fulbrook regards the “death of metanarrative” is because there have been so many ways to frame historical questions and topics, it gets to a point where they’re too many narratives that don’t necessarily conform to the idea of the “grand narrative” and so… the death of metanarrative. This matters because it leads to the (age old question of this class) what is the point of history? What is the job of the historian? If there is no “grand narrative” for which history is meant to fall into, then is history not just stories, documents, people with no purpose. 

The idea that Fulbrook brings up of metanarrative is a direct challenge to postmodernism, something that she is going to spend this entire book challenging; if there is any kind of narrative (which most histories have, as Fulbrook points out specific histories that are metanarratives) then the grounds of postmodernism are unsound. It’s like postmodernism is the death of the metanarrative, but it could also be stated that the idea of (meta)narrative is the death of postmodern critique.

Fulbrook disagrees (and rightfully so) with Jenkins because he believes that although “anyone can have a history to suit themselves, anyone and anything – and thus ‘everything’ – permitted,” Jenkins believes that “historical knowledge has been fatally undercut” so “we might as well forget history and live in the ample imaginaries provided by postmodern type theorists.” In my opinion, this is too extreme of a position to take—just because history and narrative can “vary” person to person, topic to topic, event to event, does *not* mean that is should just be chalked up to being “ample imaginaries.”

I must agree with Fulbrook’s critique here; Jenkins’ outright denial of history and claiming history as just something that is only meant to “suit” a person is a ridiculous notion, although I think more people share the same belief as Jenkins. For example, how many times in America has history been used to “suit themselves” for the benefit of their own agenda? And of course, throughout history how many times have people shifted the narrative of history in order to benefit their own? I disagree with Jenkins in that the use of history in this way should just mean, “Well what’s the point then?” This is the problem with historical theory or approach to historical in general after postmodernism—too many historians reach this point of “no return” (that quite frankly does not exist), but some historians get caught up in the extremes and just tend to write off history as a whole.

In the beginning of the chapter Fulbrook gives us the beliefs of Hayden White (another person I like in this chapter), and his belief that our knowledge of the past may increase but our understanding does not. We as historians can look at the contexts and paradigms of history, but we won’t understand it on its own without the context of the bigger picture, like a puzzle. I *loooooove* the idea of history being a puzzle that one is meant to solve because history is an investigation; it is connecting pieces together to understand, to see the bigger picture. It’s what we’ve done in the best history classes; take what we learn, connect it to what we’ve known and make sense of the bigger picture.

The puzzle that Fulbrook is trying to solve is how to approach all the paradigms, historical theories, frameworks, and narrative structures in a way that benefits every paradigm, historical theory, framework, and narrative structures. Not all historians are thinking the way Fulbrook does, many are content with just approaching one facet of history and exploring just that. What I mean is that when it comes to historians’ approach to figuring out the approach to history, they don’t take the whole into account which is important. You can’t do a puzzle with missing pieces, you’re not doing the whole puzzle.
