## *Historical Theory* II Reflection

Metanarrative, according to Fulbrook is in short, a "grand" or "master" narrative. It is broad rather than specific, as opposed to non "meta" narratives. It is in essence, the claim to the big picture story of history in probably the most broad conception possible. Metanarrative is dead according to Fulbrook because it is a holdover of 19th century historiography and one which has largely been disregarded as having any meaningfull utility outside of the dominance of postmodernism. Furthermore, it goes beyond the focus on Fulbrook's purpose in writing *Historical Theory*, which is, namely, to disentangle and question the multiple competing narratives found in postmodern histories. This matters because much of run-of-the-mill history at the very least implies some sort of metanarrative, which postmodernism rejects. Being that this work is in large part a critique of postmodernism the 'death of metanarrative' being so central to postmodernism is likewise central to postmodernism's critique.

Fulbrook disagrees with Jenkins ultimately because she argues that Jenkins' essentially "anti-historical" argument simply does not follow from its premises. Rather, Fulbrook affirms the reality of the past and of history, arguing instead that histories are but the very real past as it is seen through the lenses of the frameworks which historians utilize, either consciously or unconsciously, in their investigations of the past.

Historians try and solve puzzles as they take the pieces or the fragments of the larger historical picture and try to piece them together into a larger narrative through the use of the paradigms under which they operate. This is as opposed to the view of history as the piecing of fragments into a purely artificial and rationalized narrative. To use an analogy, I take it that this latter view of historiography is akin to an artist using broken shards of differently colored tiles in order to create something of wholly different form. This would be to view histories as creative acts of fiction. Fulbrook disagrees with this notion, as she understands historiography to be the attempted understanding of a very real past by historians through the lenses of the paradigms or theoretical/functional frameworks they utilize in the processes of inquiry and investigation.

How *metaphysically real* are metanarratives? Would it be fair to say that postmodernism's turning away from metanarrative is a turn to a view of history that is more grounded in reality? If so does this apply to the extreme postmodernist who sees all historical narrative, "meta" or otherwise, as creative works of fiction in a weird paradoxical or contradictory way?