By ‘metanarrative’, she refers to broad, teleological constructions of history designed to explain a chosen end. This is not a perspectival or even a proper paradigm, but a more ‘complete’ understanding of historical circumstances as fitting into an overarching ‘truth’, as defined by the historian. The ‘death’ of the metanarrative has been proclaimed by postmodernists, and it matters because, taken to its conclusion, it seems to mean that overarching ‘truths’ in history are as real as fiction. That is - it is real in the mind of the historian alone, and he or she fictionalizes in order to incorporate historical facts into a narrative.

Ultimately, Fulbrook denies the conclusion that history is thus ‘nondisconfirmable’ as put by White, as well as Jenkins’ complete dismissal of history as a worthwhile endeavor in the first place. While acknowledging that grand historical metanarratives are indeed ‘dead’, she makes a clear distinction between these metanarratives and narratives in general. She describes narratives as laying some claim to explaining a small chunk of the past, relating to historical facts (a list of truths that can be confirmed or falsified) as the basis for their narrative that can be critiqued and challenged by competing narratives through empirical research and discussion. While fitting these smaller narratives into larger metanarratives runs into problems with ‘nondisconfirmability’ between metanarratives, she posits that smaller narratives can essentially be pitted against one another, compared, and ranked based on the evidence used to construct them.

In this historiographical work, Fulbrook is herself seeking to unravel the puzzle of what postmodernism has done to the historical profession. That is - does the triumph of postmodern thought mean that history is fundamentally unknowable and unable to be done rigorously and empirically as the sciences are, or is there a level of historical inquiry (below the metanarrative) that does allow confirmability/disconfirmability of more limited narratives?

It is interesting to note that Fulbrook characterizes the postmodern tendency to view all narratives as inherently fictionalized constructs and all being true/untrue at once as itself a metanarrative. Instead, she suggests that it’s more constructive to history as a discipline and historical knowledge in general to reject all metanarratives (including the postmodern!) and evaluate limited narratives on the basis of their individual textual evidence in comparison to competing narratives. She notes that as historical knowledge has increased, so too has the ability to distinguish the ‘truthiness’ of competing narratives that once had seemed equally as valid.
