# Historical Theory; Beyond Metanarrative: Plots, Puzzles, and Plausibility.

The death of the metanarrative, to Fulbrook, seems to be, that one primacy, as a particular metanarrative in the grand sense, cannot compete against other narratives that have claims that may enrich the history in different ways and therefore is rejected in place of broader philosophical frameworks. It is "dead" because we no longer shares faith in the ultimate goals, and it is easy that way to dismiss metanarratives because it is human constructed and the narratives have changed. In rejecting master narratives and multiple standpoints, as the only true story, therefore, reject classic master narratives altogether.  

Postmodernist have rejected grand or master narratives that deal with theological emplotment. The problem with all these narratives is that they can't agree, but do bring diversity, and more transparency. Historians do not emplot their works, they follow the same investigations that all other narratives endure and subject to the same challenging to disconfirmation. More importantly, *“if striped away, what is left is specific propositions which are more testable than others thus illustrating the fact that in principle, we can disentangle larger metaphysical views about the purpose and goals of history from more specific, historically grounded, propositions about interrelations among particular elements in any given historical constellation” * (62). 

Fulbrook disagrees with Jenkins on his extremist postmodernist views on the master narratives because the view is purism, which can be simultaneously legitimate. *“A metanarrative or grand narrative is the histories which claim to encompass and tell the story of the great unfolding pattern of the past in the light of some greater metanarrative, boarder philosophical framework” and “the overall framing of the general philosophy of history or wider Geshichtbild, can in principle be distinguished from more specific theories about particular periods and particular patterns of change” * (58). 

She refutes Jenkins claim by saying that the * “claiming to explain, in a manner subject to empirical disconfirmation, select futures of some aspects of the past, the rejection of metaphysical master narratives does not mean that there is no possibility of comparing competing partial narratives, developing rational grounds for claiming that one interpretation better accounts for the facts and evidence than another” * (58). Fulbrook says that *“the construction of answers to questions rooted in specific concerns and concepts of the present can be constructed, developed, compared, and critiqued and the possibility of one master narrative does not logically entail the multiplicity of competing subsidiary narratives are all equally valid,” * (58). So, to refute claims that history is fictional through narratives, Fulbrook explains that all historians must be subjected to disconfirmation the same, regardless of the paradigm or master narrative framework. 

The puzzle that Fulbrook is trying to solve, I think, is how competing historical approaches can be evaluated and * “the extent to which the alternative or competing historical interpretation can be challenged, revised, amended, and are genuinely open to disconfirmation” * (73). The * “fundamental questions of initial choice of paradigm for approaching the past, the conceptual frameworks for the inquiry, or categories for analysis, the assumptions about relations between individual agency and societal or structural circumstances” * (73) Fulbook is *“trying to solve the ways in which degrees of attribution of relative casual weighing of different antecedents, ways, within certain paradigms, of trying to disconfirm certain accounts on the basis of new evidence or reconsideration of existing evidence in new ways; and with the limits of collectively agreed means of proceeding in these ways, because of wildly different assumptions across paradigms of inquiry” *(67). 

The puzzles historians are trying to solve, according to Fulbrook, *“is in short, historians work within collective traditions of inquiry which set certain parameters and puzzles for which they seek solutions” * (67). They are not picking out ideas from thin air, but rather operating withing a certain framework of *“pre-existing assumptions, knowledge, and questions” that address a wider inquiry “in light of alternative frameworks of interpretation” * (67). Fulbrook says that historians don’t emplot the past, making up whatever narrative they desire, rather they try to resolve and solve any puzzling issues withing * “the framework against the context of controversies or wider frameworks” * (67). The puzzle is what is compatible and incompatible with the frameworks. 