From what I could understand, the premise of postcoloniality being described in this article is that India’s history is being written with a European point of view. Like most colonized nations, much of their history is/was influenced by whomever colonized it. Great Britain’s style of writing and class system is being heaved onto a completely different society that bears no resemblance other than what was brought by the British.

An interesting idea that I gleaned from this article was how some Indian nationalists felt that the Indian’s needed to be conquered by the British to show them how become a better state and people. This is a sort of Stockholm Syndrome where people want to be free but there is nothing wrong with the people that rule them because they have these great ideas on how to live and they have a great form of government that should be replicated.

One of the main challenges of a postcolonial history is the psychological power imbalance that gets created between the colonizers and the colonized. By attempting to replicate European class systems on Indians, there became a power imbalance of haves and have nots. I am sure some form of this was already steeped on the society as a whole, but the British said one group of Indians is better than most of general population and the British were better than everyone. That is going to seep into people’s brains and people will eventually believe it. One cannot create a nationalistic history if they think they are inferior to another outside people.

Another challenge would be writing style for the historian. How does an Indian historian write in a truly Indian style when the society is still trying to find what that is and if it existed previously, how do they find what is already lost? It is difficult to copy a style you have read about because of the time and place you grew up in. 

How do you write a nationalistic history if remnants of the colonizing government/society remain in place? 
