What is the premise of postcoloniality as described here? What are the main challenges to a postcolonial history?
	Something that stood out to me about this article was the continuation of the use of Marxism and the transitions between the precolonial world and the post colonial one and how this transition turns the way society is viewed and how first world  countries view others.
  It reminds me of the quote from Chakrabarty when he says, “The marxism “From each according to his ability to each according to his need” runs quite contrary to the principle of “Equal pay for equal work,” and this is why Marx remains- the Berlin Wall notwithstanding (or not standing!)- a relevant and fundamental critic of both capitalism and liberalism and thus central to any postcolonial, postmodern project of writing history” (Chakrabarty. Pg. 5). 
  This combination of capitalism and liberalism is to think that people will adapt their abilities according to what society as a whole needs. There's a transition of pre colonialism to postmodernism that can be seen especially in third-world countries where the change is more gradual and is a process that focuses on the themes that are deemed “problematic” and is “corrected” by adapting to modernization and capitalism. 
  This is expressed when the author says, “These narratives revolve around the theme of “historical transition.” Most modern third-world historians are written within the problematic posed by this transition narrative, of which the overriding (if often implicit) themes are those of development, modernization, capitalism” (Chakraberty. Pg. 5). 
  There's a new way of thinking in this wave of postmodernism that differs from the philosophical ideologies of the pre colonialist times in which the ideas of liberalism are achieved. Society becomes more open minded about the philosophical ideas that are put forth by philosophical works.

How were the ideologies and thoughts of liberalists differ from the ones put forth during the Enlightenment?
