 One of the most relevant books ever written about the ideas expressed in this chapter is the Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad. In its opening pages it explains the origins of civility and honor in the country of England. It argues that as the Romans carried the torch of civilization and protected it from the barbarians so too do the British carry the torch during the period of colonialism. During the period of time that the Romans occupied the British island, they gave the flame to the British in hopes of expanding the fire of knowledge and civilization. Thus we have our measuring stick by which to measure all civilizations against, with some nationalist pride to ensure no one can be better than the European powers.  

This measuring stick acted as the way in which we measure the value of new civilizations, especially those that were encountered during imperial times. In that way the history of many other peoples throughout the world was not an independent history, but rather a history based off of how different they are from the measuring stick of European powers. It was these ideas that lead to the question of how to civilize the new world, as well as colonies in places like Africa and India. This seems like a honorable and good motivation to try and improve the world, however the way in which they went about this noble cause was often subjecting the newly met peoples to systems such as that of the Encomienda system or even simply outright slavery.  

In the past these histories of non-eurpean nations were never measured by their own merits, values, and ideals only those of European powers. Words such as “modern,” “noble,” and “civility” are extremely relative. A modern society for a European power would be extremely different from a modern society for a Native American society. Clearly in that way the most difficult problem for Post-colonial history is how can we understand the past of other societies when we clearly have bias to European ideals. If history is merely our understand of the past, how can essentially create an entirely new history that is based on the actions of countries that were not colonial powers? In order to make these histories stand on their own an exclusion of the European powers seems like the obvious path forward, however to outright leave them out of that history would be to do a disservice to every history.  

Through what means can let new histories stand as independent of European powers when they are so clearly intertwined? 

 

How different are the values of European histories and those of colonized countries histories? 