# Postcolonialism #

As we’ve stated before in class, history is written by the victors so, it isn’t a new concept that postcolonial histories tend to have that same narrative. Chakrabarty makes it clear in the beginning of his article that postcolonial history takes the concept of “Europe” and “India” as “reified” categories, where “domination” and “subordination” are paired together, which leads to “nativism, nationalism, or worse, the sins of sins, nostalgia,” and it is this version of Europe that is still celebrated for its power, which dominates the discourse of history. We know this fact to be true, because it’s always been so—the white-centric history narrative will win out in the end.

I like that Chakrabarty points out that when “third-world” (I hate that label, so much) histories are being written, those developing nation (I’m going to use this term instead) historians must refer to European historians, but European historians do not have to refer to the developing nation/colonized history. He calls that “relative ignorance of non-Western histories” that doesn’t affect their work; but it should. We’ve talked in class about the importance of *truth* and how, although there is no such thing as *absolute* truth when it comes to history, there are *subjective* truths that should be considered when historical narratives are being written to give validation to histories.

So, it still goes that some histories, like India’s history, have Euro-centric/pro-Western narratives; in the case of India is it capitalism or *modernization*.  Chakrabarty points out that Marx when writing will use categories like “bourgeois” and “prebourgeois” or “capital” and “precapital” which can mean that the relationship between the two terms is chronological and theoretical, but also points out that you can take the same terms “capital” and “bourgeois” and replace it with Europe. For instance, pre-Europe India would have its own history, culture, economy, etc., and post-Europe India would have a European-centric history, culture, economy, etc.

When Britain came to colonize and industrialize India, they made sure to critique Indian/Hindu culture and domestic life. So goes the history of most colonized countries; their very identity as a society before colonialism is erased to fit the mold of ideal British life and society. Granted, in the case of India, there was a reform where education became necessary for women in India, which Chakrabarty points out the language “freedom,” “equality,” and “awakening” was used to describe the education of women. But this language considers the Euro-centric definition of “freedom,” “equality,” and “awakening” that may have existed in India’s lexicon before colonialism, the British just may not have known or wanted to learn that.

I spoke before about the identity of a society before colonialism, and it should be noted that Western ideologies *did not take that into account when “modernizing” or colonizing them.* How does that take affect when colonists decide, “Alright, this country is ready for development! We’ve done our job!” and leave that developing country to find itself again? Postcolonial history is finding that identity and sifting through the damages, erasure, and trauma.

*Questions for class*:

1. I didn’t really go into the nationalism aspect of the article, but how do we feel about the nationalism presented by Chakrabarty? Is it the inherit nationalism presented to a colony going to help or hither that developing country?

2.  Recently language has become a central theme for class; how do we feel about the language “third-world” country? Does that term for a developing nation have assumptions that affect how we view them? Does that affect its historical narrative?
