## Postcolonial History Response

Postcolonialism, as I understand it in the reading, seems to be the general idea that the histories of countries which were at one point colonized by one or more of the European powers ought to revise its own history outside the yoke of that colonial past. This is not to forget about the colonial past, but instead to focus on the parts of a colonized nation's history apart from that past, or to otherwise focus on the aspects of precolonial reality in that country which have endured despite colonialism. This would enatil separating the European colonial historical narrative from that of the colonized nation as it may exist outside the sphere of influence of the histories which treats the pasts of colonized nations as mere extensions or accidental parts of the colonizer's own history.

Dipesh Chakrabarty's particular strain of postcolonialism, to the degree that I understood it, seems to be focused on India and its status as a colonized nation whose own characteristics were somehow deemed inferior to those of great Britain, as a result of that  colonialism. Additionally, Chakrabarty is extremely critical of these notions of "Victorian" or otherwise "bourgeois" influence in Indian historiography.

This approach--postcolonialism in general--that is, has rather difficult challenges associated woth it, there being two main ones which I can recognize.

The first one is the issue of writing a history of a colonized nation outside the sphere of influence of colonialism: is it even possible to do that? I imagine it is like trying to completeley get rid of an old tree, roots and all. Sure you can cut down the tree (stop talking about colonialism and pretend it never happened), but the stump is still there and so are the firmly established roots. In order to finish the job, you would have to dig out the stump and the roots, but doing so would mess up the ground where the tree once grew. To write a history of a colonized nation completely free of colonialism would be to completely dig out the old tree of colonialism without leaving a big ugly hole in the ground.

The other issue is that, to the degree that you can actually separate colonialism from the writing of a history of a colonized nation, is what is the best approach to do such a thing in a way that is satisfactory, or in reference to my tree analogy, how much of the tree can you cut down and get rid of without digging a big ugly hole in the ground? Are there certain tools (methodologies and approaches to historiography) you can use that get you as close as you can to that goal without compromising the original soil? That is, to what degree can you rid colonialism from the colonized nation and its history without harming the integrity of that nation's past, and what tools do historians have at their disposal that might get them there?