The premise of postcoloniality described is in untangling historical narratives from colonialist, imperialist, and fundamentally European structures of historical thought. In gaining independence from imperialist powers, the colonized attempt to assert their own identities, but these identities are often cloaked in colonial perceptions themselves. In writing local, postcolonial histories, the “subaltern” history is conceived of in terms of the “modern,” the “free,” the “objective,” “critical,” and “universal,” terms which all are linked with the imperialist power, in other words, that of Europe. The colonial state is referred to as in a state of “transition” from the despotic to the bureaucratic, which invariably ends as a description of the post-colonized as in-transition from the Eastern to the Western.

In developing an “original” local history, then, postcolonials create antihistorical “mythical” understandings of their newly independent nation-state’s past, but do so in subordination to Western historical narratives. In universities, especially, inculcated as they are with European historical methods and presuppositions, postcolonial narratives cannot separate themselves from the European tradition, which is fundamentally conceived of as “modern.”

Postcolonial histories seek to create an original, native conception of history, but do so centered around the creation of a new nation-state, the definition of which is fundamentally European, involving European notions of social relations, familial connections, civics, and state bureaucracies. As Chakrabarty puts it, post-colonial histories must recognize the extent to which they collude “with the narratives of citizenships in assimilating to the projects of the modern state all other possibilities of human solidarity.” In defining what it means to be a citizen in a modern nation-state, then, post-colonial states must be cognizant of the extent to which their definition is appropriated from European conceptions of the citizen and the state. Without examination, the European mode becomes the norm and the very existence of a post-colonial state becomes based on the European model. The newly independent nation-state is not as independent as it at once appears. And if a state is enslaved by colonialist interpretations in its thoughts and understanding of itself, how free from colonialism is it really?

---

"What effectively is played down, however, in histories that either implicitly or explicitly celebrate the advent of the modern state and the idea of citizenship is the repression and violence that are as instrumental in the victory of the modern as is the persuasive power of its rhetorical strategies." (21)

"...the universalization of the nation state as the most desirable form of political community. Nation states have the capacity to enforce their truth games, and universities, their critical distance notwithstanding, are part of the battery of institutions complicit in this process. "Economics" and "history" are the knowledge forms that correspond to the two major institutions that the rise (and later universalization) of the bourgeois order has given to the world-the capitalist mode of production and the nation state ("history" speaking to the figure of the citizen)." (19)

---

Is writing "postcolonial" history, then, a method of doing history useful not just for societies seeking to distance themselves from colonialst perceptions and understandings, but useful for any historian attempting to write a more "objective" history unfettered by historical concepts indelibly linked with colonialist thought?

Can European historians ever extricate themselves from their own European colonialist trappings as postcolonial writers in colonized states have done or attempted to do?
