# Post Coloniality 

The premise of post coloniality, as described by Chakrabarty, is to explain what *“European imperialism and third-world nationalisms have achieved together: the universalization of the nation state as the most desirable form of political community” (21)*. Chakrabarty explains *“the idea is to write into the history of modernity the ambivalences, contradictions, the use of force, and the tragedies and the ironies that attend it, the rhetoric, and the claims of (bourgeois) equality, of citizens' rights, of self- determination through a sovereign nation state have in many circumstances empowered marginal social groups in their struggles” (22)*. However, Chakrabarty scrutinizes the issue with transnational scholars that reproduce imperialist narratives, critiques normative methodologies and analytical frameworks, and the insider-outsider subjectivity produced in academia. History is read as text, by those who have been allowed to write it. This is because historians in academia are the "gate keepers" of the knowledge of the world. They decide what it represents and the agenda that is pushed forward in the world.

The main challenges here is that *“1) the recognition that Europe's acquisition of the adjective modern for itself is a piece of global history of which an integral part is the story of European imperialism; and 2) the understanding that this equating of a certain version of Europe with "modernity" is not the work of Europeans alone; third-world nationalisms, as modernizing ideologies par excellence, have been equal partners in the process”* (22). 

European stances of reason, science, and universals help restructure Europe as the modern state. However, this is *"culture-specific" and therefore only belongs to the European cult” (21)*. It does not account for a plurality of history within the realm of modernity.  

Chakrabarty sees secular histories as problematic because it lacks being capable of explaining how postcolonial and political modernity influences the conditions of being and historical knowledge that is produced in the third world. The influences of the nonmodern, non-secular relationships and life practices influence the institutions around them, making them diverse. 

Post coloniality creates a repressive homogenous Euro-centric universal history that reinforces imperialism, nationalism, and citizenship. However, subjecthood did not result in citizenship, nationalism did not result in a universality individual rights and equality, and imperialism was reinforced by violence. *“So long as the themes of citizenship and the nation state dominate our narratives of historical transition, for these dreams are what the modern represses in order to be” (24)*. 

Overall, Chakrabarty seems to be saying that post coloniality seeks the lack and failure of colonized nation states to ensure their (European) history above others, making it the example and pinnacle of all historical progress. The transition of the plurality of history is incomplete because it denies success before modernity was introduced in non-western countries. And postcolonialism’s metanarrative, through violence and action, reinforces rules of secular and linear law as a prerequisite to historical study which marginalizes other non-western cultures progress. 

