 Francisco Raby-Mondragon
 
History 491

11-15-21


 
   In the reading by Thomas Cauvin, “New Field, Old Practices: Promises and Challenges of Public History”, Magazén, 1 (2021). We can see that there are many important parts to this paper. The author adds that they want to “let us be honest; despite recent developments in the field, public history remains largely unknown outside the circles of its practitioners. If we explain that we practise, study or work with public history, our interlocutors are likely to raise their eyebrows, confess their ignorance and ask for more details.(article). I like how the authors add that this is a time that in history is largely unknown outside the circles today and even in the past. It is very clear to the authors that ,while it is clear that public history is becoming increasingly international, defining the field remains challenging and open to discussion. I think the authors add that rather than a categorical, ultimate, single definition of public history, what we need is international discussions such as exchanges and collaboration on what public history can become. Very much like the collaborative aspect of public history, defining the field should include various understandings, practices and theories. I like how they add this in because this shows that know one is perfect with history, even with studying for research papers and other ways we look at history.  
I like how they add that practitioners, scholars and students,  many  people have different approaches on how they study and what they want to study.  This shows everybody is different in many ways. There is also diversity that challenges the definition of the field of study today. The authors also add that there are criticisms that can partly  play a role in this history view as well. “Historians always have an audience, even if it is a niche of a few experts. But public history encourages historians to communicate to large, often non-academic audiences through multiple media, or branches of the tree. In order to share historical interpretation (trunk) with audiences, practitioners make use of a broad range of communication tools including radio, books, exhibitions, journals, tours, fiction, comics, and more recently digital and new media. A willingness to communicate beyond academic peers and a consideration for new modes of communication and how they affect content are crucial for the development of the field. Communicating with various audiences forces historians to reflect upon their approach, moving away from a jargon and concept-oriented academic style to become user-friendly and engaging. ( article)”. I like how the authors add this in because it shows there are many forms that people study and show the views and of communication with the historical interpiction. 
