What are the tensions and challenges of doing public history? When looking at history and the events and people that make up that history, it's important to look at it from many different perspectives to gain more purpose in understanding from different angles, as author Cauvin suggests, “I would strongly argue that defining public history should be an international and collaborative process in which the variety of voices and interpretations contributes to enriching the field. 
However, the task of defining public history collaboratively and internationally is beset with many challenges.” (Cauvin. 5, 6).
I think there's different ways to look at history to solve the puzzle of the overall purpose. It's a good idea to look at history as an overall concept and then taking that apart and looking at the individual pieces to get a better sense as to what your looking at, as Cauvin states, “The challenge in defining public history is to balance the need to identify and frame the field while offering space for discussion, collaboration and disagreement.”(Cauvin. 7).
There's never a right and wrong answer when looking at history which can be helpful because there's many different interpretations to look at, but it can also be noted that history as an overall concept can be complicated in defining. 
Is international public history either desirable or possible? I think that international history may not be disable, but it's definitely needed to understand the broader scopes of the events and how those led to where we are today. 
As Cauvin says, “Public history goes beyond the simple interpretation of primary sources. It helps to create, record, manage and preserve sources. 
Public history includes archiving, managing collections in museums and other repositories, preserving sites and historical buildings and digitising sources. 
Creating, managing and preserving sources involves public oriented objectives that require historical skills – we need to ask if the source is reliable and if it is relevant for our understanding of the past. 
Without the creation and preservation of primary sources – in the broadest sense, also including buildings, sites, objects, digital-born archives such as emails, and interviews – historical interpretations would not be possible.” (10). 
We live in an age where the storing and restoration of historical events and people is easier and clearer to discuss. I think that the ways in which the documents or recordings of specific events are stored and remembered has come a long way and the understanding of those sources adds to a richer and in some ways, more complex discussions. 
It’s easy to see how Fulbrook’s advice may useful for public history practitioners, but what are the challenges of implementing what she’s arguing in public history contexts? 
What are potential solutions? Understanding history is a chance to understand the world we live in, and there's many different interpretations to history which can lead to more intricate discussions, and the development of how historians are tasked with looking at history is a better way of understanding in deeper detail the overall purpose of a historian. 
Cauvin gives a good summary of what historians' purposes are and how to look at it, “Developing public history will involve trained historians sharing authority with other actors and questioning how history is used and consumed by individuals, communities, groups, institutions, agencies and governments. 
Far from denying the role of historians, public history provides them with new opportunities to engage and interact with the public. Rather than merely giving lectures and providing truths about the past, historians can work on building collaborative spaces and projects in which all actors can learn, practise and share skills to collect, analyse, interpret and communicate history.” (28-9). 
Historians have the opportunity of looking at history and regenerating past ideas and implementing new and creative interpretations of what studying history means.
