Thomas Cauvin’s article highlights the two main issues regarding public history: the field itself is difficult to explain and label, and it is open to a lot of debate and criticism.  One of the best examples he offered was in the idea of the Holocaust and how public history can be used to codify information about it.  He also mentions that in order for it to be public and include the input of various people, there would need to be consideration about including the narratives of Holocaust deniers and what they believe.  This is an extreme example, but it illustrates one of the criticisms about who has the right to create public history and if those views are valid and ethical.

Reading through Cauvin’s writings, it was hard to gain a sense of how public history can be defined.   Public history could be defined as the creation of historical narratives that utilize the input of not just academic historians, but members of the public as well.  However, questions arise about the validity of the historical research or writings that are a result of this practice because the academic side of traditional historical work seems to be less emphasized.  Someone Chauvin quotes describes this result as *“disneyfying”* history, which serves as a means to educate but mainly entertain its intended audience.

Because public history, at least in some respects, tends to be more centralized in terms of location and context, it would be difficult to have a cohesive international version that would fulfill a consensus of some type.  This past week’s events surrounding the need to address climate change on an international scale and reach a similar consensus are a good example of just how completely incapable the international community can be when it comes to agreeing on any one thing, let alone something as complex as history.  If an international public history is desirable, it would only be so in that it could be used to create a much larger narrative about key events that affected international happenings.  I am not quite sure that is even something many people would feel is necessary.

Competing narratives that would be useful in creating public history are also what could cause the most amount of discord and incompatibility.  If Fulbrook’s desire to implement more transparent forms of historical theory were to be used in public history practices, it would be a challenge to create a cohesive sense of the historical information being presented.  Her ideas about understanding the contexts and frameworks in which historical research and writings are presented could actually be helpful to public historians.  Applying this knowledge to what public history can produce would be a great help in defining why certain ideas and facts about the past are viewed as more important or relevant than others.  It would be a difficult challenge to have consensus about what theoretical frameworks or structures should be used to do this though.

*Questions:*

How can public history be credible without the more intense levels of academic research that are typical of traditional history practices?

Should ethical standards always dictate what is included in public history?  What about the question of including groups or philosophies on the extremes of ethical and morally acceptable thought?
