# Public History #

Really quick: the fact that *Ratatouille* was quoted in this article must be one of the best (and funniest) things I’ve read in my undergrad because… it actually made sense in the reading and…. I just loved it, thanks for that.

There are many challenges of doing public history, but from Thomas Cauvin's article he highlights the two main challenges; history itself is a difficult subject to explain and define, and history is open to criticism and debate that makes it difficult. The two challenges go together, because if you can't define what history is, you're going to find that that history is going to be heavily criticized and debated on its subject matter; likewise, if a history is too heavily criticized or debated on, it could be difficult for historians to validate it as a history.

Cauvin also highlights the fact that there are issues with the language of *history* in that internationally the definition is contested which also creates tension for historians. I am of the same opinion as Cauvin, that there is no way we can give a “one-size-fits-all” definition of *public history* but rather it is an umbrella term that will encompass local, national, and thematic practices and theories of history. History is going to be the always contested subject in academia that will always be challenged, debated, and researched because there is not one answer to the question of “what is history?” Public history also falls into that debate.

Public history is going to be just that; public. Karli pointed out in her post that Cauvin thought that history is sometimes *“Disneyfied”* in that it is used less to inform, but to entertain; that is what I hope to investigate with my Metahistory essay. There are many concepts of history, and public history has been conceptualized by both the professional historian and the public; that is always going to create more challenges and tensions in the field.

I do believe that international public history is both desirable and possible with the “From Trunk to a Tree” analogy that Cauvin uses to describe the study of public history. I liked the idea that even though the analogy of the tree has been heavily debated and criticized by historians, it works for most paradigms of history and identities like feminist histories, gender histories, as well as the interconnectedness of human (public) history. Although there is no way for there to be a *universal* definition and agreement on the definition of *public history*, we can agree that public history is *for* the public and therefore going to be open for all to interpret and learn from—just be critical of what you, as a historian and public consumer of knowledge, are interpreting and learning. (I feel like I say this too much, I am sorry!)

*Question I have for class*:

The professionalization of history in the late 19th and early 20th century is cited as affecting the relationship between professional historians and their audiences, but should we argue that the postmodern movement of historiography reenergized that argument, or is more prevalent of an argument for affecting the relationship between professional historians and their audiences?
