The metaphor of the tree as an interconnected system of conflicting relations between actors is somewhat helpful, but as pointed out it is a limiting metaphor that does not leave room for discontinuities and ruptures. Perhaps something like a hyper-dimensional tree is a more apt comparison, consisting of trunks, roots, branches and leaves turned in upon themselves, relationships morphing along different axes in a fractal-like web of expanding links. The characterization of roots as collection, trunk as interpretation, branches as communication, and the leaves as uses obscures useful biological modes of comparison. Far from being simply-determined biological expressions created causally in a linear fashion from the collection of water and nutrients from the roots up through the tree, the leaves themselves are the essential factories of production in a real tree.

Public history as “applied history” makes more sense from a definitional standpoint, as the efforts to bring historical investigation to inform public policy. Its characterization as a “democratization” of the historical process (if not the profession) as a result of Web 2.0 technology is also a useful one. This highlights one of the tensions inherent to public history: the wide variety of methodologies, processes, and people “doing” history will inevitably lead to conflict over not only what public history even is but what it should be used for and how it is done or even conceived of.

Placing the emergence of public history in the context of the economic depression of the 1970s lends towards interesting critiques (if slightly tangential) of the role of “jobs” in society - how there were “too many historians” for the few academic “jobs” and how there was a push to find non-academic settings for historians to be employed (or, alternatively, non-public/private settings). This raises questions regarding not just how we see the historical profession but the role of jobs themselves as well. We see that the contemporary historian must earn their existence as a historian by producing “value” in the form of capital. The point of becoming a historian, then, in contemporary society is to find “useful” (profitable) modes of doing history: an interesting counterpoint to the characterization of public history as a supposed “democratization” of the field. How is it democratization if the work of historians have become even more subordinated to such a narrow definition of “useful work” as purely what is profitable or deemed an investment in future profitability? 

As far as public history can be adequately defined, it appears that an “international” public history carries the same problems that a unitary or universal history does. The field is far too diverse not only on an international scale but even within regions and countries to attempt to universalize the subdomain effectively. Public history is more of a patchwork of semi-autonomous, interlinked scenes of historical investigation and policy crafting. It would be contrary to the spirit of public history to impose any internationalist conception from above.
