## Public History Reading Reflection

The tensions and challenges of public history are multifaceted. Some involve simply defining the term while others ask more existential questions like "is public history truly even really history" or "to what degree does public history distort truth?". The former challenges the concept of public history in light of one definition of what history *is* to begin with, while the latter implies that there is at least a small degree to which "public history" misses on the main points of "doing history" in the first place, namely, to find the truth behind the occurence of past events.

The idea of "international public history" makes a term which is already hard to define even harder to define.I do not see why the concept of public history ought to be "internationalized", that is, defined in terms particular to certain nations of the world. Rather, I would argue in favor of the desirability and need for a "universal public history", or a conception of a public history which is at least in large part uniform across the various countries in which it is practiced, as idealistic as such advocacy may be. It is idealistic because to do so would likely require the relabelling of the term to something with constituent parts which have conceptions which are likewise at least in large part uniform across the various countries of the world. The number of conceptions in the world which would fit these criteria are probably so narrow that they do not even encompass anything even relevent to the term "public history."

The difficulty of applying much of Fulbrooks' argumentation to public history, I believe, rests in large part in the fact that many public historians are either not aware of the frameworks or paradigms under which they operate. If they are aware of these frameworks or paradigms, they do not make them known to the reader. I believe there to be a very practical reason for this; two of them in fact. First, I believe any more than a minimal discussion of the matter would take away from the actual doing of history that is involved in public history. Additionally, anything less than a relatively lengthy discussion of the matter would be inadequate in truly providing a sense of how paradigms shape the perspective of the historian. Second, I believe that such a discussion would eliminate from public history its general accessibility, as dense theoretical analyses tend to be things that the public is not so much interested in outside the higher strata of academia. The best solution, I believe, would be for the public historian to leave the reader with a disclaimer/reminder which states that the views expressed in their works are a product of their own personal paradigm(s) and are not necessarily reflective of truth qua objective fact independent of human conceptual impositions.

To what degree is the idea of "public history distorting truth for the sake of mass palatability" connected to postmodernist critiques of history?

How are public and professional history connected to one another, as opposed to merely being in contrast with or antagonistic toward one another?