The tensions and challenges of doing public history is due to it beginning roots in the 1970’s NCPH unilateral authority on the definition of world history did not translate across community language internationally. So, the definition of engagement with the international community has become vague and convoluted. Although public history is not defined it is a paradox of new fields built on old practices, which is the same as non-public history, just expanding upon. 
		The tensions and challenges are that “some describe public history as using historical methodology beyond the academic setting, while others point towards physical historical relics that belong to the public domain” (Cauvin, pg.16, 2021). There is no clear categorization and ultimate definition of public history and no collaboration between international actors which creates strong criticism. Again, communication is never a neutral process, “the term public in different countries means and encompasses a variety of different aspects of meaning, and there is not language community that necessarily crosses the boundaries” (20). 

International public history is obviously desirable, otherwise what is the point in this argument? It could be possible with collaboration and respect differing countries' public history ideologies and understandings of what they consider public history as one rather than molding it into one, allowing each to coincide next to each other rather than producing one story leaving important things out. 

It is easy to see how Fulbrook’s advice about awareness of parameters would be useful for public history practitioners. Fulbrook argues that there is not a language community that is international and that paradigms can clear up intentions. The problem is clearly that international languages have different meanings and do not cross over and being within one paradigm would help gain understanding and clarity of history. The challenges are the North American history meta history narrative, and reluctance to reconsider the way history is done, performed, taught, or communicated. Echoing Fulbrook, “we need public history because it helps raise awareness of what it takes to research, interpret, communicate and share historical knowledge, public history is communication, learning from memory and uses the past to connect the pieces” (Cauvin). 
