For me the interest in history really started when I was still a small child watching the Titanic on VHS and that moment in history and the story of the sinking of the Titanic is what enthralled me as a child. During this time, I would buy books that were telling the story of how the Titanic sank and the reasons for the entire event. The other part of keeping my interest in history were my parents who took me to the USS Massachusetts multiple times where according to my father I asked questions that impressed the ship Curator and after the tour was done, he took us to the parts of the ship that was not on the tour route to answer my questions I had about the ship.

The “professed purpose” that I got attached to the most was Obligations to the Dead. For me it’s the stories and people that have been purposefully forgotten from History that some people do not want to be brought into the public mind and not the massive memorials for a horrific event. Now, I am not saying that the memorials should not exist it is more that like Southgate mentioned a moral offering for the living. The obligations that we should have are to the dead that do not have a voice or have their story told. As Southgate mentioned about Vichy France or the African Politicians that held office during the Restoration period of American History. These stories that have yet to be told can give better understanding into the time that it took place and help give a better picture of what had happened in the past. No matter how uncomfortable it might be to some people. This also help with what Southgate stated earlier in Transferable Skills where these stories that have not been told can help people make choices for the present and the future. 

The “professed purpose” that I found the least attachment to was theological confirmations and questionings. This is because I find it to be impractical to try and ague with a person who truly believes that it was their God’s master plan for what had happened in the past. That religion in my option tends to want to warp and bend the past like any other party would but then they would tend to point back to their holy book as definitive evidence that what they have twisted is the historical fact of what has happened. The other reason why this did not resonate with me is that I believe that religion is closer to mythology than it is History and you do not need to look for confirmation in History for the morals of religion to be confirmed.
