## Southgate Reading Reflection 

Hello all, 

A bit on my current understanding of history – 
While I had excelled in History/Social Studies courses since primary education, I didn’t consider it as a possible career path until my junior year of High School when, thanks to a particularly good teacher, I began to clearly see the connection between the struggles of the past and those of today. Until that point, history had been merely a curiosity in my eyes. I found it quite difficult to relate to the people of Ancient Greece, Rome, or even the Wild West, at least in the way in which those eras were presented to me. But when learning about the Gilded Age and the Progressive Era, I couldn’t help but see our own political and economic battles reflected in the skirmishes between robber barons and social reformers. To me, the true virtue of history is the gift of collective retrospection – the ability to look back on events that shaped our present and learn from the triumphs and tragedies of both those who upset and challenged the status quo and those who worked to preserve it. For just as one person needs some degree of inner reflection on their past actions to become a better human in the future, so too does human society require some method of reconciling with its past and in so doing evolving beyond its often-bloody priors, and that is, in my view, precisely the use of history. 

As for the Southgate reading – 
I tend to agree that, when it comes to imparting transferable skills, the study of history isn’t a bad option for picking up worthwhile practical knowledge. I can count on one hand the number of times I’ve been asked to solve for X in the real world. In contrast, there have been innumerable occasions in which I’ve had to investigate the reliability of a source, construct a timeline of events, weigh evidence and factor likelihood, to say nothing of basic research and writing skills – all of which can be acquired from the study of history and applied to various operations in multiple jobs or just in day-to-day life. Now, I wouldn’t classify these transferable skills as the purpose of history, though I do concur with W.E.H. Lecky that attaining such practical skills are a significant benefit of studying history. 

In a larger sense, I share in J.H. Plumbs view that history has practical utility insofar as it allows for a greater understanding of ourselves and the path that led us here, and by extension history enables us to alter our present course. This is the very core of my understanding of history’s virtue, as I explained out above. The study of history reveals our many failures and successes, achievements and atrocities, and as a result gives us the chance to set us on a path towards progress. The job of historians, then, is to ensure human civilization does not crumble beneath the weight of its own past mistakes. 

In my view, a vital part of history is the process of deconstructing myths about the past. In this reading, Beverly notes how a number of historical myths, including the “American myth” and the “Hitler myth,” are crafted as a means of cultivating a deep nationalism to which citizens educated in these myths unthinkingly subscribe. As Beverly notes, historical mythmaking introduces a sense of stability within one’s understanding of the past, emphasizing an unchanging rigidity in historical narrative that runs counter to any genuine attempt to understand the more organic, fluid nature of historical understanding. Designed to foster security and, dare I say, complacency among the populous, historical myths serve only to rob society of the chance at growth. In fact, more insidious myths work themselves into national and even personal identities, causing critical investigation into their validity to be rejected instinctually, thus ingraining in society a dangerous level of ignorance. As such, it ought to be the duty of historians to expose myths as best they can, for they represent possibly the greatest obstacle to collective retrospection. 

To be clear, I don’t believe that myth should be eradicated entirely, but it should be weeded out to the greatest extent possible within historical research and understanding. Myth can and has been a source of fantastic storytelling and wonderous inspiration (I would know, I’m a comic book fan), but only when there is a clear line between reality and fantasy. When these lines are blurred, the result is more often than not socially deleterious. If history is the ground we walk upon, historical myths are quicksand. 

As a final note, I would be remiss without mentioning that theological confirmations are, to me, among the most ignoble applications of history possible. The manipulation of half-truths, the surreptitious distortion of documented reality, and the even more insidious injection of complete fiction into historical record all function to cement a subjective theological understanding of history as objective fact. It’s mythmaking taken to the nth degree. Indeed, to apply history in such a fashion not only robs society of genuine retrospection, as myths usually do, but creates an environment of collective solipsism – a state in which the public has been conditioned to deny themselves any critical investigation or thought into history beyond what they are told by those in power. This is, of course, the exact opposite of what a just application of history would yield. 

If you’ve made it this far, thank you for indulging me and I hope I contributed some food for thought to your day. 
Thanks, 
Andrew

P.S. Perhaps we can discuss this in class, but I didn’t quite understand the concept of cultivation. Beverly’s section on the idea was quite short in comparison to the other professed purposes. From what I understand, cultivation refers to using history to broaden one’s horizons so-to-speak, or possibly to contextualize yourself in a larger story of global society? I do agree that history can serve that function, though again I am a bit foggy on what exactly is meant by this term “cultivation.”


