As far back as I can remember, history has always been my favorite subject. My honest answer on why is because it is easy. History already happened so not much of it going to change. There might be new discoveries here and there that will alter the way we view a certain figure or event, but that does not seem to happen very often. Another intriguing part of history is that no matter what time period and location throughout time, something interesting is going to be found. And this can be anything including farming techniques or how a culture figured out how to deal with plumbing issues. There is always something interesting to be found.

The Transferable Skills purpose resonating the most with me and not in a great way. There is a lot of generic, old ideas of why history needs to be studied. The old adage of “those who forget their history are doomed to repeat it” is a ridiculous statement because the progress of time makes that irrelevant. If humans truly learned from their past there would be no situations like in Afghanistan or modern day dictators. Time and technological progress allow increase the awareness of past events but they also allow for many of these types of events to repeat themselves.

On the flip side, I do appreciate the fact that the knowledge of history is one of the keys aspects needed by great leaders. The elites of society have usually been taught history to lead their people better than those in the past and the truly great ones find innovative ways to overcome their history. But the knowledge of history is not the only quality needed by a leader because a monarch can be defeated by an unexpected revolution or a well-equipped army can stopped with old tactics used by a guerilla group.

Obligations to the Dead was the purpose that resonated the least with me. There are always going to be histories and people that are going to be forgotten or unknown but that is inevitable. People also want to rewrite their histories in an attempt to hide their shame like the Vichy government. I am not saying that we should just let these things lie where they are and completely forget but sometimes there really isn’t anything we can do about it. There have been billions of people throughout history and not everyone or everything is going to be remembered.

How do we figure out what is myth and history if there are no actual records from that time period? The question is especially prescient when people use false histories to “prove” their ideology.

Are mythic founding stories a bad thing when they can unite a nation like the American founding myth?
