History has always intrigued me because I value understanding why things happen the way they do. Subjects like the sciences have always interested me for the same reason, I have always enjoyed the exercise of applying knowledge towards being more able to understand the processes that created my environment. History has always been the subject where this instinct manifests most profoundly because it is the subject that I have been most able to relate to in my own life. I’ve always been curious about how historians decide what to present to the public and how that has shaped my understanding of the past.

In the Southgate reading, I found myself most interested in the transferable skills we gain by studying history. When Southgate quotes Lord Acton, who says that they study of history enables people to avoid the limitations of contemporary paradigms more easily by forcing one to detach their thoughts from their environment, he identifies what I consider the most beneficial aspect of studying history. Southgate’s discussion of Greek historian Thucydides and his history of the Peloponnesian War that allowed me to consider this idea more closely and helped me to better understand why I value the study of history. It is always interesting to learn about a historian like Thucydides who explained the conflict between Athens and Sparta as the functioning of a moral law derived from the Olympian gods. The study of history enables us to understand that Thucydides interwove his own perspective into his work. This is important in helping us to understand Thucydides’ work more fully, but color or thoughts, even when it is inadvertent. Additionally, it offers an excellent example should someone who has truly studied and understood Thucydides’ work ever need to convey an important idea to others with subtlety. In a time where basic factor often disputed, this feels like a skill that is becoming increasingly valuable and important.

The study of history as an obligation to the people of the past resonated less with me. The Vespasiano da Bisticci quote which said that the deeds of great people would be lost if someone was not present to document them, well accurate, filter elicit a reaction the way the ideas of Peter Laslett and Lord Acton did. I didn't see much value in preserving the deeds of the dead beyond providing additional context you are overall historical understanding.
