As a history major, I think it’s safe to say that history has always intrigued me in some way or another. I can personally look back and remember the first time I ever saw the classic painting of George Washington crossing the Delaware River in a History Textbook. I believe it was a belief that wars, and military history were the most important aspect of understanding the past. In the end, aren’t wars the most common reason for the rise and fall of civilizations. It would make some sense as The United States rose as a result of the Revolutionary War, Rome fell mainly due to wars with barbarian tribes, and wars are more likely than not the reason for Christianity surviving in Europe.  

The professed purposes that resonate the most for me is “cultivation and Theological Confirmations.” I would argue that these two points can walk hand in hand especially in Western Cultures. This is because I feel it has affected my life through many avenues including Nationalism, and Religion. In terms of nationalism, I often look back at the early years of the United States with a sort of pride in our ancestors. Their defiance of authority and strength in establishing a nation dedicated to Liberty and Justice for all. It's extremely easy to deify the founding fathers with even the name “Founding Fathers” acting as a sign of respect. Of course, now I know the French Navy had played a large factor, not to mention various injustices of the Revolution. In terms of Theological Confirmations, I was interested in the importance of the Frankish and Byzantine militaries in protecting Christian Europe from Islamic invaders in Spain and the Middle East. Although Christianity originated in the east, it has very much become a core aspect of western culture since its adoption by the Romans. Due to these, I would argue that a “Euro-Centric” view of History is at least to some degree responsible for my fondness of history, in terms of culture and ideologies.  

The professed purpose that resonated the least for me was the “myth breaking” aspect of history. I feel that I rarely have attempted to do a “MythBusters” view of history in which I look for fallacies or discrepancies between various accounts of historical events or figures. In a way I would argue that placing myths within history is a very human activity. Often, we enjoy seeing superhuman feats portrayed in stories such as tales of Hercules lifting massive weights, or even more modern heroes such as John Wicke or Batman defeating a villain. The only issue with this view is that often history and myth are easy to mix often in order to deify political figures or demonize opponents. Take the movie “300” for example, the hero of western culture, Leonidas, is a muscular King who dies for his beliefs and his opponent is a 7-foot-tall golden monster. Clearly Myth Busting is relatively important in cases of overzealous attitudes towards heroes in film and media, however I feel that if the embellishment is obvious the myths in history. This is of course to say that everyone knows the “truth” while the myth is simply used for fun or any other purpose. 
  