As a youngster, I delved into history as a way of escapism. My extensive imagination fueled these fantasies and were based in both historical fact, and historical fiction. Films, tv shows, and books, I ate them all up and would insert myself somewhere within them, imagining what my life would be like as a strong shield maiden, a martial arts weilding super spy, a scientist on the verge of a breakthrough, or an aristocratic and open minded young woman who fell in love with someone outside of her social class. 
My interest in movies, tv, and books is what propelled me into the world of history, but my own sense of understanding and questioning reality is what kept me there. When a topic piques my interest, I attempt to discover what sort of creative lisences an author or director has taken with the subject matter, and what is factual. Occasionally, this quest leads me to information, topics, or people from history that are so captivating to me  that I can't get enough. Other times, a simple google search is all I need to quench my iquisitive thirst, say, 'huh, that's cool' and move on to the next thing. That to me, is what is so dazzlilng about history. Everyone who is a student in it, whether academically, professionally, or otherwise, can choose their own adventure. 

In regards to the Southgate reading, I found that the 'professed purposes' that resonated with me the most were *cultivation* and *myth-breaking*. With **cultivation** I was particularly captivated by Southgate's discussion regarding how we can move forward from the elitist and problematic meaning of historical cultivation in regards to 'civilized society' and its eurocentric and patriarchal roots. **Myth-breaking** was fascinating from a purely personal standpoint because this is something that, even at the most basic level I have attempted to do in my own studies and understanding, but is also something that I've attempted to do, not as a historian, but as a tour guide. When people travel, especially to the west, oftentimes they have these ideallized and romanticized ideas of what to expect. I began creating these segments called "poking holes in heroes" as a way to humanize larger than life characters, and oftentimes knock these contentious figures off of their pedastals, in an attempt to help historically and morally educate my guests. Strong myths transcend time periods and can morph into an uncontrollable creature if we aren't careful.  

The purpose that resonated with me the least, was *theological confirmations and questionings*. This is admittedly where my own personal agenda and biases pop in, because I struggle with the topic of theology in general. To me, this is the less interesting extension of *myth-breaking*, one of those 'huh, that's cool' moments that I can read through and promptly move on from. 

A few questions: 
1. Are there specific myths that you feel are particularly important to break? 
2. Is there a more appropriate term to use in place of 'cultivation'? If so, what do you think it is?
