History has been a source of fascination for me since late grade school.  I have to attribute much of my interest in the subject to two truly incredible teachers who made the idea of historical learning and research fun and exciting.  Why I am intrigued by history really boils down to the simple idea of wanting to understand and appreciate the events and figures of the past that have shaped who humans are in the modern world, to connect the dots on how we as a species have arrived at the present moment.  I suppose it is also a sense of personal identity that I have sought when I became enamored with history in general, and the idea of how we “got to now” is part of that identification.

Southgate presents valid arguments about the use of history and historical writings as a means to inform future actions and attempt to define human behavior.  His professed purposes of history as a means for cultivation, myth-breaking and as an obligation to the dead were the points that stood out the most in terms of modern relevance.  Defining modern relevance should include the idea that having at least a broad understanding of critical histories allows for better present choices and, therefore, future outcomes.  This is also key to the idea of myth-breaking, and as Southgate points out, it is easy to believe in a romantic notion of a certain time, place or person from history rather than accepting truths and facts that may color those things in a less positive way.  This is inline with the need to include revisionist policies in topics regarding American history and how our own nation has been challenged by the use of truth and fact in rendering its own past.  History could also arguably be the one true form of immortality that humans can actually achieve.  Remembrance of those persons long dead allows for the connections to the past that history can enable, but also maintains the core of what it means to leave a mark on the present world.

Theological confirmations in terms of historical use are some of the least noble causes to be had in historiography.  The promotion of a particular group’s ideals and tenets above others by the use of pseudo-factual information should be considered one of the failings of historical research.  This is a dangerous and shameless self-promotion that many historic scholars throughout the ages are guilty of.  Southgate’s specific points about Nazi Germany and Hitler’s mythical status are prime examples of such practices and strong reasons why this type of historic work should be discouraged.
