[kelly1.md](https://github.com/unm-historiography/2021-fall/files/7074865/kelly1.md)

History has always been an interesting subject for me, and really it was studying wars and battles that got me interested in learning the little histories that led to the big histories. For example, I remember one of the first battles I read about was the Battle of Gettysburg, which although interesting to know the small details, did not compare to the interesting details  leading up to the Civil War. Still, being a History major I am always getting asked, "Why history?” And honestly... it’s not just one thing about history that keeps me interested, but the many different “purposes” that Southgate notes in the reading for the week. Before committing to History as my major, I was an Education major with the pedagogical approach to teaching history as a means to understand instead of a class of rote memorization. This was something, that from an early age, I didn’t like about my social studies/history classes; the fact that my grades were dependent on whether I could remember the original Founding Fathers who signed the Declaration of Independence, or what dates the US bombed Japan during World War II. That is not learning history; that’s not understanding history. Do we treat history with the same respect that Math and English are taught? The answer is a big hell no.

K-12 schools do not do history curriculum any justice; it’s treated as a subject dependent on memorizations of dates and important figures. But like Southgate quotes William Stubbs in the reading, “History ‘may be read for its own sake’; but it may also, he went on, ‘be learned as a mental discipline, and it may be acquired as a piece of furniture or apparatus of cultivated life.’” As the reader I understand this to mean that history can be a pleasure subject where you learn just for the sake of learning, but also as a strength gained. In the Southgate reading, he talks about history having “professed purposes” such as transferable skills, cultivation, and (my personal favorite) myth breaking. Going back to history being a way to cultivate “transferable skills” I liked how Southgate pointed out that history uses and refines skills like thinking critically, being analytical, and perfecting personal expression and oral presentation. We’ve talked in class about how it was only in the 19th century that historians required some evidence to prove a history—but even then, we can see how true historians must be critical, analytical, and personable to be effective in what they are researching and publishing. 

Previously I said that my favorite “professed purposes” of history was the “myth-breaking” which would probably be the biggest reason I have fallen in love with history. It is my belief that there are not only so many things that we don’t know about all of history, but also many things that we get all wrong about some history. For example, one of the biggest partisan arguments used by the current Republican party is, “Well, it was Democrats who wanted to keep slavery during the Civil War!!” But the truth is, the switch between the Democratic and Republican party platforms is not as well-known as it should be. Not so much a myth, but it’s still a part of history that is not as well-known and that’s not fair; we know (for the most part) why knowing how to calculate percentages and properly formatting a sentence is important, histories deserve that same respect. That being said, the least favorable “purpose” was theological confirmations and questionings because it doesn’t seem to add value to historical teachings/writings. One of my classmates likened it to “shameless self-promotion” that scholars are guilty of, and I have to agree. History shouldn’t be a winners only game, it has to be an all-inclusive reach around the globe.
