# What's History For?
Southgate focuses on the subjectivity and objectivity of history throughout time to provide how narratives, perceptions, transmission, cultivate, influence, form, preserve, drive and push historical relevance to unite and control people, to continue, expand, and deepen why we learn history. Overall, Southgate delves into the different purposes of messaging in history and how this messaging and differing narratives can clarify, dictate, condemn, vindicate, expose, refine, modify, and valuate, critical aspects of histories. This poignent piece includes historical material to contextualize current and past conflicts and how continuing influences often have explicit motivations for improving social justice while attempting to provide well informed interpetations of societies and relations in the past. However, to how and what extent the historical content and analysis is approached has not been resolved and remains a constant pursuit in the professed purpose's of history. 

History's purposes and perspectives have been considered integral to politics, power, and control. The influence and dynamic of power has pushed narratives foward, gained and maintained control, and created conditions of inequality and equality all at the same time. This is due to the fact that perspectives are subjectively constructed, often for whatever means the constructor felt, viewed, understood, as necessary or essential to derive and meet their expressed goal. Although different perpectives are important to expanding history, intent purposes need to be clearly demostrated and not assumed. Since we use our own lens, our own narrative, and our own opinions on how we precieve what the truth is, history's purpose is to do due diligence and  probe and challenge to *"dispell vanity"* bias, and myths *"while being more sympathetic to alternative values, to expand our horizons and enlarge our experience"*.

However,on the other hand, history's purpose can be self-serving or bias and that creates social divisions and inequality. Each set of morals, (what is right or wrong and what we value) is subjective to each person and is directly influenced by a collectively formed and agreed upon ideologies of each different soceity at that time, each feeling more important than the other. *"Bolingbroke writes scathingly of the ridiculous and hurtful vanity, by which the people of each country are apt to prefer themselves to those of every other; and to make thier own customs, and manners, and opinions, the standards of right and wrong, of true and false"*. We only tolerate information that agrees with our collectively decided narrative and stance in our own society at that time and this creates intolerant attitudes towards approaches and one another. *"Tolerance is not a quality that springs to mind in relation to the reality of historian's own attitudes towards their colleagues' differing approaches, all to often debates generate into verbal assaults that scarcely exemplify that cultivation to which we've seen some historians aspire."*.

Overall, as I understand it, history's purpose is to simutanously be objective and subjective at once. We *"should be able to hold two opposing opinions and still function"*. The piece is clear and well written. It speaks to both good and bad purposes weilded by the creators of history. The peice resonated with me because we should be more aware of who and why the informatiom is coming from and people should be able to have conversation about opposing ideas without resorting to verbal assaults, which in my opinion indicates that they lost the arguement anyway.