# Southgate Reading Reflection

*What has intrigued me about history?* What has intrigued me most about history is that it's the story of how we got here. Who's we? Well, the most broad way to answer that is that "we" means humans, generally speaking. From prehistory to the dawn of civilization, institutions, practices, etc. have popped up which are still in use to day. A few examples of this would be religions/beliefs about the divine, language, warfare, and politics. Sure, these things have evolved tremendously since the onset of the phenomenon of human civilization, being that we do speak the same language as the ancient mesopotamians, nor do we have that same religious beliefs or wage war in the same way! But that's what history *is*, namely, the documented evolution in human phenomena from the time it began being documented until the present. This evolution--these changes--and the reasons behind them, which differentiate and also unite us to those who came before us, is ultimately what I find so intriguing about history.

*Which of the "professed purposes" of the reading resonated with me the most and the least, and why?* This is difficult to decide, since all of the purposes resonated with me to a significant degree, but of course, some stand out more than others. Ultimately I would have to say that "cultivation" resonated with me the most and "theological confirmations and questionings" the least. Cultivation resonated with me the most because the discussion of Bolingbroke's advocacy for the learning of history as a way of "repudiating the sort of parochial nationalism that has since his time proved all too intrusive" is one that I could most easily challenge. I would do so by saying that in order for the learning of history to work in this way, one must approach it with an open mind regarding the histories of those people which they may be learning. For example, if someone not of the Middle East has an open mind about learning Middle Eastern history, despite likely differences between the reader and those in the Middle East in things such as religious beliefs, cultural practices, and social views, they can learn the region and its people's history while giving them the respect they deserve. However, a closed-minded approach can have the opposite effect. For example, an American nationalist or Christian Fundamentalist could read Middle Eastern and Arabic history and interpret it in bigoted terms, creating a historical narrative that positions the history of the reader's identity above those which the reader is studying. Again, it all depends on the approach of whomever is learning the history. I put "theological confirmations and questionings" as resonating with me the least, simply because I had never really conceived of the learning of history as contributing concretely to any sort of religious or theological debates or discussions.For example, as is mentioned in the reading, Catholics used their claimed history of being the most ancient Christian church as a way to blame Protestants for the schism of the Reformation, in an attempt to maybe clear themselves of any wrong doing. Going back to my argument of "reading history with a closed mind having the opposite effect of cultivation", I would also argue that turning to history confirm theological positions also has this effect. However, a different approach can be taken, one which challenges the historicity of the occurrence of events often believed to have happened by religious individuals, in which case it becomes a form of "myth-breaking". In either case, this "professed purpose" seems to me to just be one other professed purpose or another, depending on one's approach, and as such, resonated with me the least.