When thinking about how the human conception of progress has changed and what that has changed the way people think about history, the idea that Hesiod, and many other early Greek thinkers, were laymen and therefore not as connected to the idea of the gods were an extension the natural world. This detachment from the natural world, enabled by urbanization, seems to have allowed for the transition of historical thought and human culture more broadly from the “mythical” focus on the connection between humankind and the pleasing of the gods, which ancient people believed underpinned events in the natural world, to a more “rational” focus that centered on the challenge of understanding “laws of thought”. 

Would this have played some role in in changing broader human thought away from the natural world and toward our own modern approached progress? 

I'd assumed it was human nature to puzzle things out, to always take the next logical step back or forward, but maybe this is a function of our modern thought process driven by this detachment from the natural world, what Lemon called “the principle of growth”. This idea seems to be consistent with the political cycles Lemon discusses and seem to be relevant in understanding the ideas of Jaki, Bury, and Nesbit. While I believe that Nesbit is correct in arguing that there seems to be an ancient belief in linear progress, I think that as we go further back in history the conception of progress and cycles is unavoidable as survival depended on natural cycles like the seasons or the flooding of rivers in ancient times.

Augustine is an important figure because he emphasized a linear conception of history, that rejected the ancient reliance on cycles, and the Greek idea of an unchanging world. This linear thinking further detached historical thought from the ancient focus on the natural world and its inherent cycles. This is an important distinction because it further removed historical thought from the ancient notions of recurring cycles and toward the Christian idea of a finite world that was created, and will inevitably be ended, by God. I was a bit confused when Lemon compared the differences between the ideas of Trompf and Nesbit, I didn’t fully grasp the argument as, Trompf didn’t fully reject the idea of cycles in human history.

I would be very curious to learn more about how urbanization affected historical thought as I found this was by far the most interesting idea in the reading.
