# Greek and Roman and Medieval Histories

Man, nothing like some philosophy to make you question… well, *everything* you thought you believed about time and progression. Lemon’s first chapter that we read had me nodding in agreement at certain points while reading, while other moments I was ready to disagree with any point being made because it all seemed too *pessimistic*. The conceptions of time and progress that are important to the meaning of history, even today, are whether time and progress are cyclical, theological, or biological. Personally, I believe no matter the word used to describe it; progress has proven to be **cyclical**—but that shouldn’t be seen as a **negative**.

I particularly loved the biological analogy that was highlighted in the reading, because it’s such a beautiful analogy that encompasses time, life, and history. Does not life have a beginning, middle, and end? Do histories not have a beginning, middle, and eventual end? It was that beautiful, artistic Greco-Roman thought that just brings a warmth to my heart (even though the Greeks and Romans didn’t really embrace the biological analogy for its beauty as I have, but that’s the Greeks and Romans for you.

I do believe that a common theme in history is the search for human progress; have we truly evolved from 100 years ago? Are we the same human beings, making the same kind of mistakes? That’s a tough question to answer, but what I can answer is yes, studying history itself does facilitate some kind of human progress. It almost goes back to the biology analogy; do we not see living and being alive as a progression of humanity and human life? Maybe that's why I like the analogy of life and death in history, because history itself is **a living, breathing entity** that of course can't map out and get the answer from; it's living and going through it's cycles.

Of course we should care about Augustine in relation to this course; he's a living agent of *his time* who wrote *his history*, how he understood life to be happening to him and his people, and now *we* have that history to draw our own opinions from. One of my peers wrote that just as we care about Plato, we care about Augustine for "their 'history' from their perspective, morals, and societal norms."

Still, I think Lemon wants us to compare Greco-Roman histories and Christian histories very lightly. Lemon likens Greco-Roman histories to being part legacies with "mythopoetic" institutions. He's not wrong; I can say for myself, I do not wholly remember much of Greco-Roman histories, but I do know the stories, legacies, and myths. In turn, Christian histories could also fall into the same relation—Christian history are (in my opinion) built on legacies with the same mythopoetic institutions as Greco-Roman histories. It almost goes back to the Southgate reading where we discussed that some "professed purposes" fall into being theological confirmations and questions; much like the innate theological confirmations and questions that go into Greco-Roman and Christian histories.

Anyway, a question that I had come up during my reading was was the same that Lemon asked (and struck me the most); **Is it right to conceieve of the possibility that "human nature" does in fact change over time, or are human beings always going to be the same, making the same choices and mistakes, even when circumstances change?**
