In M.C. Lemon’s Philosophy of History, we start to look deeper into certain aspects of inherited history and their historical relevance. In this book *“Lemon maps out key debates and central concepts of philosophy of history placing principal thinkers in the context of their times and schools of thought” *. 

Certain aspects of inherited history are still *"in today's use"* (Lemon). The conceptions of time and progress are important to the meaning of history because progress signifies the improvement and continuation of the human condition over the course of history. However, progress is relative and not absolute. The notion of improvement is subjective to those who live it and is different for those who just investigate it through a different lens in a different time.  

A hotly debated issue is the inherited history of secular and mythological philosophies. These historical philosophies remain regular fixtures in the framework today. Historians agree that it does describes historical background, their school of thought, and spiritual climate. However, the Christian belief in a linear life cycle, is widely debated because there is no evidence of a definite linear end, just theological stories about it. Although, it is interesting to point out that we use the Gregorian Calendar. The reasons? Colonialization, increased trade, and convenience, but historians, regardless of school of thought, continue to use a time scale based on Christian philosophy dictated by the life and death of Jesus.  

The Graeco-Roman's cyclical philosophy, on the other hand, of birth, zenith, decay, can be proven science fact, because we are all born, live, and die. Also, the evidence of repetition and reoccurrence has been significantly documented throughout time. Kingdoms rise and fall and new ones rise in their place. However, the mythological stories are not fact, they are just allegories and stories but they do provide relevant social climate, historical background, and school of thought of that time. This is clear in Plato’s philosophical allegory of the Cave, which weighs the nature of belief verse knowledge. This story provides a historical background of the social climate and school of thought at that time. Again with St. Augustine’s widely read philosophies, provides his times' social climate and school of thought, which was marked by inquiring *“to answer the question of relationship between Christian doctrine and actual life as lived out in history” * and *“the importance of truth that God created in that world and time, he also rejected any comic or historical cycles endlessly reoccurring and that history was linear” * (Lemon, 55). However, in Augustine's case, neither of these ideas can be proven, God's existence or if there is an all-encompassing end for us all at once. It does however provide the concern with purpose and meaning, which are both subjective and relative notions and deal in philosophical ideologies, not necessarily historical fact. 

Regardless, I think we can all agree that philosophical history provides *“how people think, on their attitudes and beliefs"*, the social climate, and school of thought giving a greater historical background of *"how free human beings have thought in the past"* (Lemon). My questions are; is that if everything in our existence is meaningless, what is the point? Meaninglessness is philosophical. Significance is subjective. Would progression halt if there was no meaning and purpose ideologies? 

 
