## What ideas in the article were most and least interesting to you?

The article, “Of Things Said and Unsaid: Power, Archival Silences, and Power in Silence,” makes many interesting points, some I agree with and some I question.  On page 227, the author states that “silences are asserted as a statement of power by the marginalized.”  I cannot think of any reason a marginalized group would not want to archive their memory or records. Carter uses feminist organizations as an example, stating that silence is power, yet if they are silent because they feel they would not be represented or because they feel male domination of the archive, why would they not create their own archive?  What purpose would there be to be silent and not record your history for future generations?  Hundreds of years from now, when those choosing to be silent are forgotten from social memory, will it still be male dominated because feminists chose to be silent? We will not know what groups chose to be silent or which ones were silenced by the archive.

On page 224, the author states “totalitarians are notoriously good recordkeepers..” which was a surprise to me but it makes sense. Though they were good recordkeepers, the archivists generations later may choose to include or exclude the records. Hitler comes to mind.  During World War II, Nazi Germany recorded Jewish families that were taken to concentration camps. While Germany and most of the world wanted to forget what happened, it took years after WWII for the records to become available to the public. Now the archive contains nearly four million names of those that perished or survived the Holocaust.

The most interesting point in the article, and something I have believed my entire life, is what the author points out on page 226. “When captured by an archivist, through an oral history project…the stories, histories, and records may no longer have the function or meaning intended by the original record creator.”  Since the release of the Slave Narratives from the Federal Writers’ Project of the Works Progress Administration (later Work Projects Administration), I have said and believe that the interviews were tainted by the fact that the interviewers were usually from the area, all of them were white and most were probably related to former slave owners of the area.  This would affect the narrative in two ways. One, the interviewee may not have been forthcoming in their true responses, especially if they knew the interviewer and if they were related at all to the former slave owner. (In my own research of families in South Carolina, I found an interviewer had the same surname as the slave owner of the interviewee.) Second, would the interviewer change the narrative at all if they did not feel comfortable with the truth? 

Archivists do have the power to control the archive, thereby controlling the memory hundreds of years from now.  Silencing marginalized groups has caused us to miss history and has caused negative evidence.
