The most interesting idea was for the archivist to actively go out to try and fill the silence themselves. It is the job of the archivist to maintain the records, but it should also be their jobs to fill that void. It is a more difficult task for non archivists to be told that they need to get into the archives if they do not even know they are missing. The archivist should not have to go out and ask every person of that community for their story but should at least make an effort to ask people to send in their stories in order fill the void.

The least interesting idea was advocating for people stay actively stay out of the archives. In essence, that group is conducting historical suicide. In a general sense, everyone wants to be remembered, especially the marginalized. Staying out of the collective memory only hurts themselves and only makes sense if a group was living in a dictatorship where that information could make them the targets of repression.

I did like the idea of people going out to create their own archives but that comes with some negative effects as well. If an archive is not funded by the State, that means they likely will have less funding and in turn, less of a capability to maintain the archive for an extended period of time. Without State funding, there is the risk that no one is there to protect the archive. The State wants these archives to last so it will create a strong defense. There is also the risk that interest will go away with private archives because funding comes from said group which is most likely not going to want to perpetually pay for the archive. A State archive does not have that problem because taxes are guaranteed.

There is a problem that comes with every archive which is scope of the archive. The example of the archive was for Canadian gays and lesbians, but does that mean no BTQ is allowed? Is it strictly for just Canadians? It is fine if it is, but then they are just furthering the system the archive was trying to break.

How do we convince the marginalized to help fill in the silence?

This question is not geared towards this reading, but it is one I have been thinking about a lot from our recent class discussions. If colonized countries like India want to create their own histories without European centric views, are they going to have to make up methodologies independently? How can an Indian historian compare his history writing to others if a majority of the world has accepted/adopted European styles of historiography?
