I found this article to be exceptionally interesting. While I found some of the discussion silence as a tool of resistance or an assertion of power by marginalized people, I felt that this idea was rather obvious. Same for the idea that it is the job of the archivist to determine whether or not archival silence by a group of people was intentional of forced, even though I recognize that the exercise of discovering and understanding the nature of anything that has escaped the traditional historical record. Further, the idea that a group of people would actively seek to be excluded from the historical records, and even the memory, of those who repressed them as an act of opposition is an idea I hadn’t considered before.

However, it was this idea that inspired what I considered the most interesting take away from this article, as the veneration of the archival record permeated the article. This was surprising in an article that focused so much attention on the privilege of the powerful and the ways that the marginalized attempt to contend with their power, as the authors fail to recognize that by defining the silence of a group exclusively in the context of how its correlation to the powerful, specifically the archivist. This presupposes that every group of people at its core seeks to be remembered. 

I cannot fully embrace this idea. It seems to me very likely that there have been many groups of people who simply had no interest in being remembered whatsoever. Understanding these people then would serve the needs of the historian, not the needs of those who they are studying. I was reminded of Machiavelli’s view that history is to be used as a tool to better understand contemporary situations while thinking about this article. While this is an important part of studying history, to assume that a group can only be absent from history due to oppression or resistance to oppression completely ignores that some groups of people may have had no interest in, or even a conception of, the collection of historical information. This is evidenced in what I considered a fundamental misunderstanding of King Lear’s Cordelia. It seemed to me that her decision to be silent, to the extent that she was, seemed rooted not in resistance to Lear, or in the hopes of making some change in the situation, but instead in her disinterest in participating at all. 
