Softball question as we wind up the first half: What ideas in the article were most and least interesting to you? Add 2 questions.

Of Things Said and Unsaid: Power, Archival Silences, and Power in Silence* Rodney G.S. Carter
	I think the least interesting concept was also the most perplexing concept to me as well, and it was the thought that power wasn't a majority in society but rather it is an influence over who controls whom and what in the world. I think this is interesting because what I took away from this was that the powerful are the ones that decide how a society functions and what is deemed important and significant enough to put it in an archive. But this begs the question for me as to what constitutes as being important and significant and why are these people the ones that get to make those decisions, what deems them powerful? Carter says,“They are not necessarily a part of the majority in society but rather can exert an influence that outweighs their numbers. These powerful groups create the records that will eventually enter the archives and use their power to define the shape an archive takes.” (Carter, Pg. 3).Something else that really made me think about the way in which our society is run is the way in which Carter explains the dependence silence has with speech and vice versa. He says, “Within remembering is forgetting and in forgetting is remembering. The dichotomy is broken down, the binary subverted. This is not an either/or position. The same can be said of silence. Speech and silence are dependent and defined through the other. There is no speech without silence, otherwise there would just be unmodulated cacophony; likewise there would be no silence without speech, just a universal meaningless, emptiness.” (Carter, Pg. 9). I think this is fascinating because it makes me think about their relationship and how silence only comes because of speech and speech only happens because of silence. This also made me think about how nothing can ever be forgotten because intentionally or not it comes ingrained in our minds and in our histories, those histories that aren't told or hidden never truly stay hidden but when it serves it can become something that people or society wants to be forgotten. I also found it interesting that this article points out how the forgotten or hidden histories come to the surface through people listening to the ones that had been silenced, and how in a way it's because of silence that histories and thoughts become valued and listened to. Carter says, “For the groups that are recognized as being absent, there are ways of finding their traces in the archives. One strategy that has proven quite successful is using the feminist literary tactic of “listening to silences.”37 In this strategy, that can be applied to any marginalized group, texts are examined for their omissions, lacunae are interrogated, and the representations of women’s silence are explored. It is inevitable that the marginal infects the centre, that its presence is felt critiquing the structures of power.38 As a result of this infection, or infiltration, the voices of the marginal may be heard. This method of textual examination, of listening, can be aligned with what Schwartz and Cook describe as reading archives “against the grain.”” (Carter, Pg. 9-10).What I took away from this strategy was the explanation of women especially being listened to and talked about through their silence. But something that doesn't quite make sense to me is why does silence have to be a tool of getting issues to be talked about? Silence and the active listening to silence is a powerful tool in surfacing discussions, but why does it have to be this way?
