## Archival Silence Reflection

What I found more interesting about Carter's piece on archival silence, is this idea of using that silence to empower the marginalized. By this, I mean that this effort to use silence against the powerful is an extremely fascinating and important one. Typically, the powerful have a monopoly on silence: only the powerful typically have authority to discern what voices are heard and which ones are not. That is of course, unless the marginalized are empowered into making their voices heard. But then, at that point they have a degree of power (hence "empowerment"), even if it is not even close to the level of those in the highest strata of influence. As a result, silence is typically and intuitively thought of as a tool of the powerful against the powerless. This is a fair conclusion as practical history gives us many examples of this being the case. 

What is much less typical and seemingly counterintuitive is this idea that silence can be used to empower the powerless and marginalized. The marginalized, being silenced as they often are, likewise have the right to *remain* silent if they so choose. It is in this right, which cannot be taken away by the powerful in control of the archives, that the marginalized can empower themselves. When the powerful attempt to goad the powerless or marginalized into speaking so as to use their words against them, the latter can use their right to silence to counter that attempt. 

Likewise, the powerless and marginalized can affirm and defend their right to silence against those who wish to speak for them. One method that the powerful may use to silence the marginalized is by attemoting to speak for them. This would serve the dual purpose of distorting the core message the marginalized may be attempting to convey, as well as to legitimize this silence in the eyes of the allies of the marginalized mistakenly thinking that these are the words of those they wish to assist when this is not at all the case.

The least interesting thing about this article was hard to find. Ultimately, I would have to say that it's the mere premise that silences in archives occur. This, as important of an observation as it is, seems to me a given. Of course silences in the archives exist, only so much information and documentary knowledge can be stored. This seems like an obvious point. However it is an absolutely vital one, as what is done with this knowledge has the power (no pun intended) to revolutionize the archive as we know it.