# Archival Silence 

The most interesting idea in this article is how silence is utilized as a tool against oppression and exclusion. I think it's important to remember that *“the power to exclude is a fundamental aspect of the archive,” not every story is told.” * (Carter). However, sometimes the exclusion is on purpose by the creators not the archivist. “While we must extend the invitation to work with and include all groups, we must recognize that there are groups who choose to work outside the archive.” (Schwartz & Cook). Making noise and making change are different.

I never put thought into whether the untold stories were decidedly silent for other purposes and what those purposes may be. Or whether other cultures have established archives themselves separately from the mainstream. After reading this article, it is understandable when this happens, *“groups that do not see themselves adequately represented in mainstream archives, unable or unwilling to preserve the documentary memory of marginalized or minority groups, have successfully established their own archives.” * (Carter).  

As an example, some indigenous tribes are silent when it come to their traditions and history. They have their own archives outside the mainstream. They are silent to maintain and protect their history and culture from distortions and omissions. Forcing or adding silent cultures into a “universal” history is a form of asserting power over them. It also downplays their ability to protect and maintain their history and culture, which is absurd and is an exceptionalism attitude. With that said, *“it is essential that archivists do not undermine the right of groups to keep their own silence.” * (Carter).  

After reading this article, I agree with Schwartz and Cook that * “silence is not necessarily a mark of victimization, it can, in fact, be a form of self-assertion; it can be an active resistance.” * (Carter). I do not think anything in this article was “uninteresting,” just a long explanation which could have been summed up in less than twenty pages. It gets a bit redundant. I understand the need to cite, to appeal to authority. Preserving the memory of a culture is up to them not archivist. I feel that even though archivists say they are respecting and trying to continue those memories so not to be forgotten (memory and identity), it is disrespectful to think that their memories and culture could not be remembered unless in their archive. This is an exceptionalism ideology, if archivists in the mainstream do not do it for them, then it will be forgotten. If you ask me, archivists are inserting themselves where they do not belong and by doing so, they are trying to assert power over others, others that are trying to resist this form of oppression and exceptionalism attitude. 
