                                                                                                                              Francisco Raby-Mondragon
                                                                                                                              History 491
                                                                                                                              8-22-21


In Eileen Ka-May Cheng’s, Historiography, Chapter 5, Social History, Fragmentation, and the Revival of Narrative, we discover some very important ideas in this reading addressing social history relating to our educational systems as well as new ways of thinking, specifically as an example, the ideas behind the thinking of the new left in the United States. We learn from the author that a Cultural Turn and the Rise of Postmodernism, better known as the “The “Fragmentation” of History, was noted as an important view of  history reflecting how everyday people lived their lives..  
  It is revealed how important Fernand Braudel and the Annales School were in  the developments in the writing of history after World War II. Ka-May Chang  believes  that without these specific writings, history as we understand it today, would be very different. 
We learn the importance of how social history was recorded,  how ordinary people  lived  during a specific period of time.  This was a different perspective in how we recorded history. Prior to this,  history reflected a more romantic perspective, reflecting nobility, religion and a more macro depiction of how people live
“Where World War II was a turning point in the rise of the Annales school, the protest movements of the 1960s galvanized the new social history. And whereas the Annales historians disavowed any overt political purpose and indeed questioned the significance of politics altogether as a historical force, political concerns were very much central to the rise of the new social history. The Annales school in France played an instrumental role in the rise of social history both in Europe and the United States.(cheng, 113)”. In this passage we learn that the rise of the 1960’s movement  stemmed from political unrest, challenging how the Annales school in France  approached how history was recorded, allowing the United States historians to view history from a different perspective. The Annales school did not embrace the overt political agendas of the times, even though the founding members were very much shaped by the political context of World War II. The author adds that even if they were not political ideas, they grew up in the era that respected it, but they did not like to write about it. One of the most important innovations of the Annales school was its challenge to the conventional view of time as a unified, linear process. 
The depiction of the New Left and the “New” Social History of the United States,  was also influenced by the Annales school.  I appreciate how the author included this perspective to demonstrate  the importance of this topic.  “Not as new as the label new social history proclaimed, this movement had roots in the efforts by the New Historians and their successors of the 1930s and 1940s to expand the scope of history beyond the traditional preoccupation with political elites.( cheng, 117)”. 
Ka-Ma Chang adds that during this period, the New World History historians focused on previously marginalized peoples, women, African Americans, and  Native Americans. Prior historians traditionally emphasized  a political and military perspective. 
