 Postmodern history is a fundamental shift in historiography primarily because it challenges the existence of objective truth. The idea that “historical accounts were simply literary constructions… making history no different from fiction” was especially striking. This reminded me of the early Homeric Mythistory we read about early in the course. While this oversimplifies postmodern views, it does encapsulate the idea that the earlier periods of historical writing had made far less progress than I had perceived and had not developed significantly from Herodotus’ dramatic retellings of history. Another important postmodern shift in historical thought was the idea morals and aesthetics were the only basis for differentiating competing historical accounts. Further, how these different accounts corresponded to reality was unimportant. While I feel like I understood the underlying idea that historical knowledge is an instrument of power that must be accounted for in an historical analysis, I didn’t understand why this would preclude truthfulness as a factor in the historical interpretation of events. It seemed that this view was at odds with the explicit pursuit of objective truth, which seemed to me like the core purpose of earlier historical periods. Even the dramatic retelling of Herodotus and the hyperbolic depictions of events in the Romantic period all endeavored to convey an objective truth, viewing vicarious experience and the emotion it generates as an important aspect of comprehensive truth.

 As dramatic as the postmodern changes in historiography were, I don’t think they can be called truly revolutionary. The Cheng reading explains how postmodernism developed out of the rise of social historians and their incorporation of the social sciences into historical writing. It seemed that the social historians use of social science techniques to address areas where there was a lack of primary source evidence was a logical development. I began to question how the evolution that began with the Cultural Turn and the development of microhistory, which emphasized the experiences of ordinary people, made the postmodern leap to doubting, and occasionally challenging, the existence of an objective reality. I don’t fully understand the reasoning behind the idea that history’s privileging the role of language makes objective truth unknowable and maybe even illustrates that it doesn’t exist at all.
