Post Modernism can be defined as “movement characterized by broad skepticism, subjectivism, or relativism; a general suspicion of reason; and an acute sensitivity to the role of ideology in asserting and maintaining political and economic power.” Obviously this discription shows that postmodernism is different from previous views of history in that it almost rejects the reason where as for the majority of human history logical reasoning has been the goal. This movement can be described as a focus less on the larger structures of society and looking deeper into the smaller more menial parts of society. Furthermore, a suscpsion of classical views and goals of historians in the past is common. From this movement we see a rise in social history in which the lower classes and downtrodden members of society are much more heavily focused on. Often this combines with the civil rights movement to express the viewpoints of many members of society who were discrimated against. To its extremes this type of history rejects the importance of political struggles such as wars and revolutions in explaination of the past. Clearly the views and lives of those who were mistreated by society are an important facet of history, but beleiving them to be the sole factor for historical change is incorrect. The chapter describes a view in which history is divided into three categories: the least important being the wars and revolutions, the second being the societal changes, and the third and most important being the culture of the people. I would argue that one leads into the other in a cause effect relationship from bottom to top. As the culture of the people changes, so too will society with laws and various beleifs. Finally, will come the wars and revolutions as those who follow the previous culture battle with those who believe in the new for dominance.  

 

I would say that postmodernism is evolutionary as opposed to revolutionary in that historians in the past have attempted to remain unbiased. In this goal they may have been successful however remaining unbiased is not the same thing as creating an all incompassing history. I would argue that the goal of postmodernsim has been to attempt to bring more of the prviously hidden histories to the forefront of historical thought. I do believe it has been extremely successful in that the rise in social histories has been remarkable in the previous decade, with more development still extremely likely. The rejection of society is extremely helpful to reach the level of history in which we can consider all histories accounted for.  

 

1) In what ways does postmodernism have a negative impact on historiography? 

2) Is there truly a way to take every view of history into account? How can we reconcile the differences between a focus on politics and focuses on the personal level in history? 