# Postmodern History #

Well, it looks like we have seem to have a a better understanding of why our generation of historians tend to have social views on history, rather than true humanist approaches of the past. Not to say that we cannot be *objective*, but its come up a couple of times in class how each of us have come to like the subject of history or the desire in studying history, which has come from some form of historical, *subjective* narrative that's piqued our interest in the last half-century.

Where we begin to see a paradigm shift in postmodern history is with past historians wanting to be both objective in their truths while Postmodern historians wanted to look at history through new, smaller lenses. I don't see objective truth being a huge necessity for historians in the postmodern era because some historians think that "truth" is *subjective* instead of *objective*, and can therefore not be studied as before. This means that historians weren't interested in discovering the truth by looking at the big picture, they wanted to find the truth as individuals in history saw for themselves.

It's not a **bad** idea, nor a **new** one, to look at smaller histories to get an idea of the new, but in ***continuation*** with the theme of romanticizing history from last week, it's clear that narrative is taking a larger role in postmodern histories. We've always seen in where historians are debating whether their respective approaches are harmful or helpful towards history, but Cheng highlights that this debate is even more polarizing than before. You have historians like Schama who wanted to use creative narrative histories to "engage readers" through narrative like a novelist. But then you had historians like Himmelfarb who criticized social history for threatening historical truth for "not only [in] providing a partial and incomplete view of the past" but in "relying on speculation and theory to answer questions of the past" it didn't ask for itself.

We see this shift from Critical history, where we are seeing history in the lens of *that* history, not through the *modern* history, and now we are seeing history in the lens of *fiction* to entice readers, only giving disclaimers on the dramatization **after** the fact. 

Still, we should see postmodern changes in historical practice as evolutionary, rather than revolutionary, because there is this new approach in history to look at history through individual lenses and narratives. How many times in class have we discussed the need for study of *microhistories*, where in restoring individuality and agency of subjects changes the way we see history. Take for instance *The Diary of Anne Frank*; how has our view on the history of Jews hiding during WWII changed based on a little girl's diary? Or in looking at the individual history of Harriet Tubman, have we not a better understanding of American history before and during the Civil War? 

Last week, I had such a disdain for the romanticization of history. And believe me, there are still some cases of romanticized histories that absolutely annoy me; where history has been so muddled and intertwined with fiction that it's hard to get the truth from the narrative. But Michael Foucault said it best though, when he stated that "knowledge- including historical knowledge- was an instrument of power" and that it was the "relations of power within a society, not truthfulness, that determined which interpretation of the past would prevail." We've said it before in class, history is written by the winners- sometimes that history is going to be a little more fiction, than fact.

*Questions for class*
1. With dramatized historical narratives being some of the first introductions that most people get into history, when is it the responsibility of the author/historian to put a disclaimer on the fictional aspects of that narrative? Should they at all? 
2. Do microhistories lead to the fragmentation of history? Or do the personal agendas of historians lead to the fragmentation of history?
