## Postmodern Historiography

Postmodern Historiography represented a fundamental paradigm shift in how historiography had been done up to the point of World War II. It did this by by questioning the notion of objectivity, its attainability, and its value. This development is related to cultural history, a movement which was critical of the place that the social sciences had on history. This is in large part because a focus on linguistics had lead intellectuals to rethink their philosophy of language, coming to the conclusion that since language provides the framework by which humans understand the world around them, that it likewise also defines that reality. Therefore, historiography and history ought not to focus on attaining objective truths about the past (if they can even successfully do so), but instead to understand the multiplicity of realities which exist all throughout time. As a result of this, postmodernism also rejected modern and Enlightenment ideas of the importance of reason and its logical and empirical consequence, science more generally.

We can view the development of postmodernism as more evolutionary, rather than revolutionary as it seems at first glance, for one may reason. At the core of historiography is the *history of history*. In other words, central to historiography is the history of how history (the recording of past events) has been done. Now, while postmodernism seeks, at least in part, to shake up the idea that human history is linear, who's to say that the history of history is itself not linear, at least for the most part or in certain contexts? After all the material we have looked at in class seems to suggest that the history of history is evolutionary as much as it is revolutionary. For example, the conception of linear history seems to have evolved out of, and in revolt against a cyclical conception of history. Likewise, secular historical frameworks evolved out of, and in revolt against religious frameworks. So too with enlightenment historiography and romantic historigraphy. This can be said, to my understanding of every development of historiography. As a result postmodernism, can be seen as an evolution of all of the history which precedes it, at least as much as it is a revolt against that very prior history.

### Informed Question(s)
Can the history of history itself be non-linear? If so, what would a non-linear conception of the history of history look like?
Are the ideas of evolution and revolution at all separable in historiography? If so, how? And if not, then what truly is the difference between the two?