The basis for postmodernist thought arose gradually from a growing skepticism with modernist conceptions of rationality and empiricism and their ability to lead to progress. It was not sudden and revolutionary but rather an evolution in historical thought that was the culmination of a trend towards questioning traditional historical narratives and methodologies. At the same time, however, it defines a paradigm shift in historiography away from objectivism and a belief in the existence of a concrete historical “truth” and towards relativism, subjectivity and the repudiation of grand, all-encompassing historical narratives.

Postmodernism in history arose with “radical” new theories of historiography such as social history, which rejected traditional histories concerned with the elite in society and focused instead on the lives of ordinary people. Because the historical data on regular people throughout history is often lacking, some historians filled-in the gaps with created, fictionalized narratives, evoking criticisms of postmodernist repudiation of truth.

Along the same line in the turn away from traditional history methodology was the trend towards writing “microhistories,” focused on individuals or small groups of people. While writing such histories broadened historical scholarship by bringing under-studied groups into the historian’s spotlight, the esoteric and niche nature of these writings also prodded microhistorians to romanticize their subjects in an attempt to garner wider readership, injecting more fictionalized narrative into 20th century historiography and causing even greater schisms between historians of different persuasions.

Is social history just “history with the politics left out,” as Himmelfarb put it, or is it democratic history of the forgotten? What is more important in historical writing: the actions and beliefs of the powerful, or those of the many and the powerless? Is one or the other more integral to history itself? Or are the faceless forgotten masses not written about precisely because their lives, ideas, and actions are meaningless in the longue durée?
