# Postmodernism: The Paradigm of Historiography 

Postmodern history fundamentally changed the paradigm of historiography by challenging past traditional approaches and underlying assumptions of historical methodology and epistemology. 

The evolution in methodology and epistemology began after WWII because global interactions opened new social histories to America through Europe. The reason for this change was conflictions about traditional approaches towards overtly military and political narratives and leaving marginalized groups out of historical relevance.  

During the 1950’s the new social history development in France rapidly spread to the US. Social history challenged *“traditional political consensus of unified and homogenized American history” *(Cheng, 122).  This criticization caused historians to look towards new approaches, adding interdisciplinarians in economics, demographics, anthropology, and psychology to gain a more *“objective truth” about human nature. Although these reforms added to the framework of historiography, it also produced tensions between historians about “the attainability of the truth itself”* (Cheng, 112).  

By the 1960’s to 1970’s, one change that occurred in the paradigm shift of historiography was the addressing of issues with power, empowerment, and disempowerment within our own society. The reason for this change is because protest movements over war and social inequality in America forced greater attention to the marginalization and polarization of American history.  

Another change that occurred in the paradigm shift of historiography was the creation and division of politically aligned historians, the New Left and radicals. The reason for this change was because historians were divided on ideologies, political agenda, and legitimacy of claims. The New Left historians and members of the SDS often criticized American history as elitist and misleading, allowing injustices and structures of oppression to continue the status quo, and only by diversifying social and cultural histories would *“result in a more objective and truthful understanding of the past”* (Cheng, 120). While conservatives agreed about *“minimalizing conflict in American history”*, they disagreed on who’s version of history was non-homogenized or romanticized (Cheng, 112).  

By the 1980’s economics, psychology, demographic, inter disciplines were entrenched in professional scholarship, and evolved into classes taught about marginalized people and subjects. However, the reliance on social sciences did not come without challenges and new problems. Historians were divided on the scoop of focus, small and particular or broad overview of American society, *"material conditions or structures that shape people"*, and what approach would get the closest to the objective truth (Cheng, 123). 

The revival of narrative blurred the lines and the  creative nonfiction further fragmented historians on what the “objective truth” is. The push back evolved into deconstructionism, criticizing traditional assumptions about “truth” itself and whether it could ever be truly obtained at all. Historical philosopher Foucault attacked the “objective truths” and epistemology assumptions that these frameworks created because they relied on their own subjectivity so heavily, and New Left historians often focused on ordinary people and their own stories, forgoing other aspects of critical explanations, while social historians *“relied on material conditions and structures that shaped ordinary people’s lives, at the expense of their perceptions and individual experiences”* (Cheng, 123).  

The changes in social and cultural history evolved over time. Historians learned new ways to approach history, however they also learned how decisive the divisions over epistemology, philosophy, and methodology are. Although, there was issues from “within and without,” these are necessary growing pains to resolving conflicts and developing new ways of thinking. Honestly, was there any other way to evolve in history without questioning the “objective truth” itself?  