 Francisco Raby-Mondragon
 History 491
 10-25-21
 
We can see that in chapters 5 and 6, Mary Fulbrook was “looking for ‘empirical evidence’, or seeking to scour ‘the sources’. We must have some notion of what it is we are looking at, what precisely the past is made of. Whether explicitly aware of it or not, all historians operate in terms of categories and concepts which serve to shape and filter the ways in which they investigate and seek to represent the past.(Historical Theory.” Apple Books. )”I appreciate how the author notes that this is a very important part of history. She is clear that this is a fundamental view, she expresses the importance of finding out the truth and to investigate and pursue the facts and truth.
Fulbrook also tells us  how language is filled with political and moral values. We can also discover through her writings that language portrayed in history is never innocent, abstract or any part of social reality in the real world. We learn that the way people express themselves through language changes the outcome. We can assume that historians can never escape the documentation of issues in regards to concepts/facts in studying history. The author adds that no historian can simply ‘write as it actually was' because there are many ways that history can not be totally accurate as recorded today and the past. 

“What we notice about the social and cultural, or human sciences, is that there is precious little agreement among observers about conceptual categories. Although there are continuing disputes in certain areas of natural science, the extent of disagreement seems much less: the Table of the Elements, for example, appears to be universally shared, whether in communist or non-communist regimes, whether the writing around the elements is in Russian, Chinese, French or English.  ( Historical Theory.” Apple Books. )”. Concepts are crucial to history, they are a totally inescapable part of addressing, approaching the past. There are also ways that historians have to search for ‘evidence’ on what happened with the  ‘findings’ and  the historians have to describe them.
“We can see that from one perspective, the basic  categories of history, it might be  so self-evident that they appear ‘natural’. There remains a huge argument about the roles of individuals in  the terms of what we might  call ‘historical units of analysis’. I appreciate the author’s approach that shows how we as people need to share and talk about what is accurate and truthful so we can document and study history thoroughly. The author also adds that historians have to find a way to escape  the particular  selection and perspective  in history to write about. The author also adds that historians must  represent a choice of a particular history. 

In the beginning, we can see such agreement on background assumptions. There are all types of assumptions that vary with the subject matter of investigation.  Noted that the study of history can be difficult due to the many struggles of people. “The question of evidence as intermediary between past facts and present understandings is thus not as simple as it may sometimes appear; and the difficulties are not all related to methodological problems of ‘source criticism’, on the one hand, or theoretical problems premised on the assumption of indeterminate multiple readings of a ‘discourse’, on the other. ”( Historical Theory.” Apple Books. )”In this passage from Chapter six, we can see that the author added that evidence is the most important part that validates the facts to understand the subject one is studying. It may be hard to fully understand the topic because not all sources are good. The author also adds that analysis of key historical controversies reveals that there has to be good reasoning for the thought process.
 
 
 
 
 
