An important component of the various paradigms historians use when considering the past are the categories and concepts that they use to define and explain historical events, even if they are unaware them. Fulbrook explains how the historian is fundamentally unable to avoid concepts, explaining that it is impossible to fully understand and recreate concepts from the past. Even language itself complicates this process as within language are embedded the concepts and categories of the historian’s social reality, as well as those of the subject of the historical inquiry. ``

Fulbrook is aware that these concepts and categories are themselves difficult to define, contrasting social concepts with the more universal concepts found in the hard sciences. This made sense to me as it is much easier to ascertain the fundamental nature of an element or other physical thing, than it is to understand the nature of am event, person, or group of people. Fulbrook makes this point by explaining how even the basic phrases used in discussing history are loaded with assumptions driven by the concepts and categories the historian brings into their work. It is interesting to stop and consider how loaded a term as seemingly benign as “developing country” actually is. 
 
The central problem of concepts is that there are significant differences in how individuals understand and apply these social realities. Some view them as essential “givens” while others see them as social constructs. Addressing the idea of concepts is essential because, as Fulbrook explains, it is not possible to operate outside of these conceptual frameworks and people approaching a subject from different perspectives will always view the subject differently. This issue is even more problematic when assessing and attempting to recreate the conceptions from the past, as this requires filtering these past conceptions through the historians own internal conceptions. This is at the core of why Fulbrook believes that all history is a theoretical enterprise. Since history is inseparable from the inherent assumptions within the historian’s social environment and language itself ties the historian to these assumptions, it is impossible to write history “as it actually was”. The assumptions of a historian’s time have an enormous influence on the concepts and categories that are used in historical study. Fulbrook explains this idea by using the metaphor of a fishing net, as the characteristics of the net used has a profound impact on the fish that are caught with it. This issue is most effectively addressed by making sure that the concepts that are being applied are “unpacked” allowing for a more comprehensive understanding and interpretation of history.

Chapter six discusses how these concepts and categories impact how individuals interpret evidence and sources. She rejects both the postmodernist view that historical accounts and the sources they are derived from are fundamentally disconnected and the empiricist view that sources can “speak for themselves” if appropriately approached. 



•	Can the idea of an “extended present” be applied to all historical interpretation?

•	Does all historical work exist in what Fulbrook describes as a theoretical level between the sources and the theory? Should it?
