 In this chapter Hume continues her discussion in trying to characterize our understanding of history. She further describes paradigms and personal qualities that individuals apply to history. It is these personal views and beliefs that shape the one different people could view a society, such as those that live within in and those that view it from other societal perspectives. This can also be seen in the language we use when describing other nations; often we call some countries “third world” or “first world.” Arguably these labels continue the history as progress in that we see ourselves as “first world” or developed or “third world” meaning not developed. This is similar colonizer ideologies of the colonized being lesser than theirs. This can be further expanded upon by noting the importance of connotations of words in different nations. The clear example being the words “communist” or “dictator.” Clearly these words are relatively inflammatory especially when viewed through an American Lens. However, in nations that follow communism, or have a deified dictator have a very different connotation. In the same way we feel a certain sense of pride for things like democracy others might feel pride when speaking on communism, other ideologies, and even religions. In this vein, in post 9/11 United States many individuals had feelings of what can be described as islamophobia in which they were suspicious and even hostile towards Islamic countries; this clearly serves as a form of bias that historians can exert on other nations when writing history. It is for these reasons that she goes on to describe the ideal neutral language for writing history. Given the difficulty of personal bias, as well the ever-changing connotations of words from country to country this is extremely difficult to accomplish.  

 

Fullbrook also mentions how “periodization” has a certain effect on our view of the past. For example, the industrial revolution and Rennaissance are a wide spread of years and their exact dates are arguable. I would say her beliefs are those of extreme postmodernism in that it characterizes the way we categorize history. In that way we relate certain events to others through our own historical theory's.  

 

Gender history is also argued in that gender is rooted in biological differences; however culture goes on to further develop the differences between men and women. This can be seen as similar to the development of the nation. In a similar way the concept of a nation is similar to gender norms in that both are expanded upon by culture. Nations are clearly comprised of different cultures, and beliefs, these serve as the lens through which they view other nations and vice versa. These differences in viewpoint serve to further the distinction and are furthered by the characterizations of an “us vs them” mentality. 

 

This “us vs them” mentality can even be carried to the idea of sources and legitimacy in history. If sources can understand to be the source of accuracy in history, who gets to decide what counts as a legitimate or even scholarly source. Clearly a country would be far more likely to honor the legitimacy of sources that validate their claim to power. This further brings to mind the various views held by sources. Given that history can be described as imperfect humans attempting to rationalize the ideas of other imperfect humans, some room for error has to be expected when it comes to bias. The goal of interpreting a document or source would be to understand the “accepted truth” of a document which can be extremely difficult to do. This is because not only do historians have their own bias and often that of another person to overcome, but they also must draw informed conclusions based on the artifact. This can be extremely difficult to do as we talked about in the last chapter, its very easy to relate two historical events, and not all historians would relate the same events together in the same way. Further calling back to previous chapters, she mentions that it’s the job of the historian to piece various clues and hints in the form of sources into the best overall accepted truth that they can. In that way the accepted truth is comprised of the puzzle pieces talked about last week.  

 

1) How can we truly be neutral when every word can mean something different to individual people? 

 

2) How can we avoid social norms when understanding history? 