# Historical Theory: Chapter 5 #

I love that (again) within the first couple of paragraphs of this chapter, Fulbrook has essentially paraphrased the last 10 weeks of this class in one shot. It makes me realize just how good she is at writing and explaining something so articulate, so quickly.

When it comes down to it, all Things need to be labeled and categorized for convenience; it’s natural for said Things to act within those categories, easy for them to still fall into it. Still, categorization isn’t something that is easily agreed upon. Historians can agree that categorization is important, but universally agreed categorization cannot be agreed upon because 1) the intersection of which categories fall can be highly controversial and mutually conflicting and 2) one’s own personal conflicts, opinions, biases, etc. are at play *always* in their work.

As I stated above, there is no escaping the labeling and categorization in history, it is going to happen because it happens to easily. Fulbrook *instantly* shuts down the idea that “categorization” doesn’t happen naturally because history itself happens in terms of periods, terms, times. How is that not a category in which themes, events, changes, fall as concepts? Fulbrook makes the argument that while yes, technically time periods and their themes, events, changes fall into the term “periodization,” it comes down to language. Language has always, and will always, be a problem for historians because there cannot be a universal agreement on what historians agree is right. There are just too many things that cannot be agreed upon, which isn’t an abstract thought.

We’ve talked in class extensively about paradigms being an issue with historians when it comes to agreeing on something universally. This comes up again, with Fulbrook bringing up the disagreements that concepts pose within certain paradigms; presupposed paradigms make it so that there is just plain historical understanding, that should be without opinion and just fact, but that language/categorization/concept will interfere with the language/categorization/concept of all other paradigms. An example given here is the disagreement seen with those who see essential/”social” realities and those who see those “realities” as “reconstructions.” It’s something Fulbrook has an issue with, as do I, because it’s essentially one side saying, “No this didn’t *happen* because it didn’t happen to **me**.” That’s not history, and not the job for a historian to interpret.

Fulbrook then brings up the use of immanence and how working through certain frameworks helps negate this issue, through the immanence of those frameworks.

I’m glad that Fulbrook shares the same idea I do (and a lot of us do), where concepts and categories cannot be escaped, but she makes the argument that categorization doesn’t mean that they are compartmentalized into theoretical boxes that don’t mix or can’t be shared and integrated within all other categories. The rigidness that language imposes on categories and concepts **needs** to be loose, to encourage open-mindedness. 

# Historical Theory Chapter 6 #

I have to say Fulbrook *knows* how to start a chapter. That first paragraph has such a striking story of just how important evidence should be, and how the interpretation of evidence can vary throughout time.

This chapter on evidence is something we’ve talked about a lot in class; how evidence can be interpreted and used differently varying by historian, paradigm, and convenience. We’ve talked about sources and how there can be the tendency for historians to “fill in the gaps” of history with evidence, but also the “validity” of evidence.

Evidence is something we’ve discussed extensively, and Fulbrook restates, as being something important for historians to be critical of because it’s the basis in which a historians’ work rests upon. But it’s still at the disposal of the historian because ultimately, it’ll be interpreted in the framework, paradigm, bias of *that* historian. It comes down to the “choice” historians make to reinforce their idea, their point.

Fulbrook brings up many examples of evidence interpreted for certain events, and I think one of the most important one she brings up is that of Hitler and the Holocaust. Fulbrook brings up the fact that there are many approaches to the study of Hitler and his regimes vicious acts of the Holocaust; how does the search “new evidence” reconceptualize the existence of existing evidence and change the competing approaches of that history? I think it’s why there is such controversy about evidence and the validity of evidence to “fit” into a narrative; some want to invalidate a history, or further validate a history based on personal bias, framework, paradigm. Basically, what we’ve discussed… all semester.

Fulbrook makes it clear, and it’s one of her running themes of the book that as historians there needs to be the approach to every angle of history. We should embrace the conflict of evidence, bias, and in connection with the last chapter; every preconceived notion that there is to a history. The job of a historian is to be knowledgeable about the subject in a way that does not leave out any evidence, even the evidence that doesn’t fit within the point one is making or the framework that one approaches. It also doesn’t allow for rigidness, where concepts and categories do not allow for the approach to other concepts and categorization.

I’m telling you; Mary Fulbrook is quickly becoming one of my favorite historians because her approach (although thoroughly dense) is one that is refreshing because she wants to attack history and the study of history from every single angle. She doesn’t want it to just stop at one point, at one’s convenience. I just… she’s so freaking cool.
