Language is itself loaded with meaning and values, moral and political. Max Weber suggests the use of ideal types in language usedto describe  the past. The problem is that there is no universal definition of what an “ideal type” is. Another problem is that the selection itself is not neutral. And thirdly, most historians do not believe that history can be a morally-neutral endeavor. 

Historical concepts embody presuppositions that can at any point be challenged by other counter-arguments by those seeking to do revisionism, since “originality” is highly prized in historical interpretation. It can seem that it is easy to determine what is important to talk about, especially regarding historical individuals. But even this is not so easy, as the characterizations of these individuals are dependent on the wide historical context they inhabit. The question becomes whether the individual in history should be treated apart from the social and political contexts of their day, or indelibly wrapped within them.

History is done most on that which matters and continues to matter, in issues where people take sides. Thus “neutrality” is a fraught concept.

When characterizing the past, historians run into the problem of placing their anachronistic conceptions on the past or using contemporary categories instead, with all the historical baggage that entails. Proposing that we should never use anachronistic concepts is to presuppose that we know what the contemporary analogue should instead be, not always an easy thing to pin-down. There are benefits to using a detached, anachronistic lens of analysis over supposedly ‘truer’ contemporary ones.

Given the differences inherent in different theoretical frameworks from which to approach ‘doing history,’ it is probably helpful to look for cross-paradigm concepts that can be employed with minimal theoretical baggage. But even here historians can run into methodological differences that hamper this approach. Nonetheless, it is clear that agreeing on what the ‘facts’ are is meaningless. More important is the ability to initiate cross-paradigm discourse and adapt theoretical language from other paradigms to synthesize a more holistic theoretical and methodological lens.

-

The question of evidence comes down to how evidence, “theoretically-netted” and thus tainted by the theoretical framework used to identify it, can be used to illuminate gaps in the historical record and to facilitate conciliation between differing conceptual, historical paradigms. There is widespread agreement among historians that historical sources form the foundation of all historical inquiry. An expansion of what constituted “good sources” in the later 20th century opened up to historical inquiry areas of research that had previously been considered inaccessible due to the paucity of traditional sources. But what is also important is not just the sources, but the systems of methodology employed to examine them critically - “how” a source should be “read.”

Humans are interpretive, social creatures with complex systems of communication, and even though there is no “past or present as such” in our daily lives, we can still draw rational inferences and make conclusions about causality that are still useful to us. While there may not be any “past as such,” this does not mean that it is impossible to compare the stories related by historians on the basis of plausibility. A historian creates an account by emplotting the story, but his/her historical questions of inquiry are specific and theoretically-bounded and developed with rigorous professional analysis and investigation. Ultimately, eplottment of anachronistic historical conceptions is unavoidable, but does not preclude the historian from creating a work with some level of relevance in our modern understanding of the past and what those historical stories mean for the present.
