# Historical Theory III
In chapter 5, one Fulbrook’s arguments is that there are no neutral concepts that’s language is universal, and is either rooted in implicit assumptions, or explicit theoretical traditions or paradigms.  

Simply put, Fulbrook’s argument is that language used cannot be universal because frameworks, diverse cultures, and time periods are being imposed upon by present situations and differing languages, assumptions, and concepts that are not homogenous or beholden to our non-contemporary issues. Concepts, frameworks, understandings, and language change in time. To fully lay out her argument:  

Fulbrook argues that there can be no theory neutral data language because “evidence is gathered within the context of wider sets of assumptions and associated conceptual frameworks” (99). This is because language is loaded with political and moral values. Historians must choose what they perceive as good or not. Those choices are based on personal and cultural situations of a society that they reside in, with different concepts and assumptions to deal with issues.  

Historians can’t escape concepts because “they cannot simply write history ‘as it actually was’ because the language the historian write can be variously located: reconstructing the concepts of a previous era or immanence, it imposes on the past the categories of the present or employ often heavily loaded concepts of contemporary political and social debates; it can speak to use explicitly defined theoretical categories” (74). It can impose all these things,  
“but it cannot escape the use of situated language” (74). 

To determine if these “concepts can be translated across different theoretical frameworks or paradigms of inquiry and the degree to which they are open to amendment and disconfirmation in light of evidence and debate, Fulbrook argues that the solution is to use explicit concepts or ideal types” (74). To inform readers of the intentions and assumptions that are being imposed upon the past should be transparent. 

However, Fulbrook argues that “if the intention is to develop a morally neutral account of the past that can be agreed upon as better and closer approximation to realities of the past than other accounts, sharing across different political and moral perspectives, then the willful use of relatively neutral, non-contested, theoretical concepts may be one way forward, but there are several problems with this proposal” (74-75) 

“Significant problems with ideal types are that neither question or concepts are shared universally by the culture of an age, but rather vary according to world view and/or theoretical paradigm” (75). “The other issue is that the selection of aspects to be highlighted in an ideal type is not necessarily morally and politically neutral, which is problematic, and many historians do not share views that history can or even should be a morally neutral endeavor” (75). This is because historical representations are part of the present and inevitably political” (75). Morals and values are different across cultures and times, nothing can be neutral in those matters, and politics are closely related to values and morals which drive each society, so nothing can be shared universally. Historians' assumptions towards investigation are based on morals and values of that particular historians subjective to their own times constraints and knowledge. 

Fulbrook believes that “it is important for historians to be explicit about their concepts and tools of interpretation, a transparency, it must remain open to argument and debate across other ranges of approaches, rather than accepting certain frameworks as acts of faith” (75). Honesty within the approach is not the framework, it is the concept, it is the historians' assumptions that led to the investigation and finds itself within a certain type of framework. 

“There is little agreement about social and cultural histories and their conceptual categories” (75). This is because there are “double set of impositions, or double hermeneutic; not only are they the often highly controversial, mutually conflicting categories imposed by the observer, the observed also has their own point of view which they are able to express and communicate to the observer, as to the nature of their society” (76). As I understand it, this is how, as some would say, there are three points of view or awareness, to every story, yours, an observer, and an omniscient one that we cannot access. Every person's view can be variously different. 

The issue is that the notion that “historical and social sciences as a pursuit of universally shared, accepted, truths about the past, but we cannot agree on these things and is hardly likely to reach an agreement on stories constructed in these terms” (76). This is because we have different understandings and undertakings in various times and throughout cultures. Language within concepts is simply different. However, if “historian want to continue investigating the past, we cannot simply agree to leave it like this” (76).  

This is because there must be some type of understanding and connection amongst historians, within framework, concepts, and have transparency. Fulbrook reminds us that “concepts are embedded with specific language communities, and issues arise when attempts are made to communicate with communities which do not share the same basic assumptions or engage in dialogue with theoretical frameworks based on fundamentally different premises” and “there is no way of escaping the choice of specific categories of analysis, the attempt to evade explicit use of theoretical frameworks/concepts itself represents a choice of a, situated language community, whether the historian is aware of it or not” (80).  

Meanings and words hold differing weights and connotations and attempts at devising a neutral language does not mean that it will be more acceptable or normalized. “The language that historians write about questions is not a purely private, personal language of their own, reflecting individual opinions, it’s a shared language, often hotly contested within communities they inhabit and write for” (82). 

Making a neutral language can be an attempt at sanitizing, rendering unproblematic, acceptable, normal” (82). The problem is that this imposes interpretations of the past on participants in other cultural communities that do not recognize this. “Reconstruction entails interpretation in terms of the present, however, historians differ on the task of reconstituting the past on its own terms or to explain it in terms in which historians believe to be more telling them those used by contemporaries” (82). 

Some concepts try to hide the lack of a shared conceptual vocabulary in the present” (86). However, as Fulbrook argues, this cannot be done since “any vocabulary beyond a very specifically rooted substantive and descriptive terminology and is intrinsically a theoretical enterprise” and that “all the concepts must function within frameworks which are open to revision, qualification, amendment, in the light of changing current interest, changing conceptual frameworks of analysis, and new material” (86 & 91). Vocabulary is borrowed to describe frameworks and concepts and must be open to changes. 

One solution is to develop a vocabulary of analysis that is explicit. However, each system of analysis has its own language and terminology and may not encompass the entire system of thought. These different understandings are rooted in different assumptions produced by the historian to make for better accounts. Fulbrook argues that part of the issue with this is that “the problem relates to the degree to which we are prepared to see categories as describing what the world is really like or mere constructs for purposes of inquiry” (89). 

While developing an explicit theoretical vocabulary that can cross these barriers seems quite clearly transcendent, there is no possibility to access or describe reality to compare it to ideal typical concepts, they retreat from empirical challenges, are “far too slippery to pin down,” and do not always resolve ‘concepts of an age’ (92). Although ideal types have a good advantage to being explicit or open for discussion, that does not mean they end up as an agreed upon understanding. 

There is no such thing as a simple analytical language that is concept neutral and shared by all historians because “the selection of categories varies across theoretical paradigms and language communities, in both time and period and when paradigms and the associated conceptual language—are particularly restricted to a limited community of scholars then there is a degree of self-reinforcement at play when using analyzing reality” (95). 

However, Fulbrook does argues that “although there will not be a universal language for describing and analyzing the past, historians can operate within frameworks and at the same time proceed on the basis of a belief that interpretations and concepts can be open to revision—within a broad language community--- in the light of the conceptually netted evidence” (97).  

 

In chapter 6, Fulbrook turns more directly to questions of evidence and the use of sources. She argues that since evidence can be gathered within the context of a wider set of assumptions and associated conceptual frameworks, accounts cannot longer be limited to traditional narratives.  

New historical inquiry in the late twentieth century developed a more imaginative aspect towards certain sources that once were thought to be insufficient. Previously ignored, deemed inaccessible, or marginalized accounts were no longer reliant upon traditional narratives and lending to legitimate historical inquiry methods. By doing so, broadened the scope of frameworks and historical inquiry. 

Fulbrook argues that there are many ways to interpret the same evidence. Paradigms are broad and can cover many aspects however, they are not “totally resistant to refinement and change in principle” (99). All assumptions and evidence are all under scrutiny just the same regardless of the context, concept, or subject matter. The treatment of sources is key regardless of where they came from.  

Sources are the” bedrock of historical research” (100). However, postmodernists believe that historians hide behind sources authority to make wild accusations and assumptions. Fulbrook argues that sources do not just ‘lend air’ to allow historians to manipulate their assumptions, because what matters relies upon “a broad fronted attack upon all the relevant material” (99). If the sources can withstand treatment and subject to limits and pitfalls of such evidence, that all other ‘qualified’ traditional sources do, then what was once thought to be illegitimate sources can become legitimate by treatment of posed qualifications.  

The attempt to severe the links between sources by postmodernists lacks sensibility since sources do not speak for themselves, they must be investigated and conceptualized to build explanatory bridges that can be reexamined and amended by others withing traditional inquiry debates” (121). However, Fulbrook argues that there is no correct way to use sources as long as they are transparent and viewed on their own merits.  