### Overview So Far
Thorough out the readings that we have read there has been some course of thoughts that have continued on and some that have ended or changed into a different idea. Starting with the Greek way of thinking they thought of history as a continuous cycle of rises and falls and it was the Romans that thought that Rome would be the empire to break this cycle. It was not until the Christians introduced the idea that history had a beginning and end did, we see a change in thought. This was shown in Augustine with his idea of a liner timeline and that humans were moving towards The City of God and not this continual unbreaking cycle as the Greeks thought.

The Renaissance was a major change for history because it changed the focus of history from being of divine will but a Humanistic point where human causes are the causes of changed. This was allowed to happen because there was a questioning of the church because of the Protestant Reformation that was occurring during this time. Another event that was happening was the Renaissance thinkers started to be more empirical of the events and of the sources that they where using. This goes to help support the humanistic view of the Renaissance. While the Renaissance thinkers were being more empirical with their sources, they also believed that Rome was the pinnacle of the past and that everything sense has been a “dark age”.  They also used history in a different way believing that history can be used for political help teaching political leaders mistakes that had happened in the past so that they could learn from the past and try to avoid the same fate as what happened in the past as shown in Niccolò Machiavelli’s The Prince.

The Enlightenment historians continued on some of the ideas from the Renaissance which was to become even more secular in their works and the continuation of being critical of their sources and citing them. This is how the time became known as the Age of Reason but on the other hand the enlightenment historians put their own morals on the past. A change of thought from the Renaissance was that the enlightenment historians did not think that there was a golden age, and the Idea of human progression came about. The historians during this time also began to look at other types of history and not only the pollical history. Voltaire for instance started to look at the social and cultural lives of people. During this time the Enlightenment historians also tried to white a unifying regional history. 

During the nineteenth century there was two camps of thought the Romantic historian and the Critical historian. The two camps shared some of their thoughts and were not mutually exclusive. One of the ideas that the shared was that they both viewed the past for its own time and did not put the morals of their time on the past as they did in the Enlightenment. Now where they differentiate themselves is that the Romantic historians thought of history as an art and Critical historians viewed history as a science. The Romantic historians used language to tell a vivid story and the facts where not the main part so they would stretch the facts to tell a good story. While the Critical historians very critical of sources and where objective and to show the past as it happened and that it was still historical events is what caused events to happen not the will of God. 

Going back through what we have talked about there are some major ideas that keep moving along with the changes and continue to stay even as the way history is written has changed. One such idea was the idea of being more secular and that it is not divine will that makes historical events happen. The other major idea and practice that continues is being critical of sources. This idea has though out the times we have looked at has been more and more refined where back in the Renaissance the were used but sometimes they were not to the Critical historians and actively trying to prove that the source that they used could be trusted.  Another major idea that was continued though was the idea of a liner time that ended the Greco-Roman idea of cycles. This idea turned into the thought of human progress that humans have been progressing though time. 

Some thoughts did not last from one style to another. Other than the thought of history being God’s will, another idea that did was not brought forward was the idea that Rome was the golden age. The idea of putting “modern morals” on the past also did not continue past the Enlightenment as the Romantic and Critical historians looked at the past in terms of its own time. The idea of history being for political purposes would come in and out of favor during the times we have looked from being popular reason during the Renaissance to falling out of favor during the Enlightenment to coming back during the Romantic time with the rise of Nationalism. 

Looking at the changes to how history was written it is possible to see a trend to improve on the field and make the field better in their minds changing how history was written to reflect their time period and what they believed history was and was for. 

### Questions 
Could the history of history be thought of a linear timeline, showing how history writing has changed throughout time?

Why do you think that some ideas continued through the different times while other faded and fell out of favor?
