# Reflections on Historiography Thus Far 

While there are undoubtedly a number of fascinating developments we’ve studied in our foray into the history of history thus far, ***the primary overarching theme that stands out to me is that of the interconnected relationship between authority, truth, and the use of history throughout time.***  

From our early readings and discussions on Ancient Greek conceptions of history, it was clear that authority was a key element of historiography. An adherence to the rule and power of the gods prompted those like Hesiod and Homer to construct histories wholly rooted in Greek myth. It wasn’t until the dawn of classical philosophy that thinkers such as **Herodotus or Polybius** took on a more nuanced approach. While still respecting the notion of the gods, these later Greek thinkers reasoned that nature was itself distinct from the realm of the gods, and thus inquiries into the past became recontextualized as an investigation into human events – wars, battles, the founding of cities, etc. – instead of recited mythological tales. _This simple yet profound shift from considering the gods as movers and shakers of the human story to regarding them as powerful yet indifferent to human affairs forever changed the subject of historical writings, shifting to an increased focus on the story of humanity._

The development of a cyclical concept of history, however, reintroduced a subservience to authority. Just as Greek political thought developed a model for tracking the age and health of government (monarchy -> aristocracy -> oligarchy -> democracy), so too did early historians develop a model for the rise and fall of civilization, cementing the notion that historical events occur in cycles. This led to a resigned assumption that Fate is the inevitable ruler of us all. Roman historians like **Livy and Tacitus** sought to break this conception, declaring that Rome had escaped the historical cycles that ended the Greeks. The notion of “Rome Eternal” was parroted by various Roman thinkers as the Empire sought to retain its geopolitical dominance, in part by _using history to justify itself_. ***When Rome became the dominant authority, it’s self-congratulatory propaganda essentially became the commonly accepted historical truth***. Alas, **Augustine** would spark a break from the entire cycle-orientation of history, instead positing a linear conception of history based on divine will and the Christian concept of predestination. 

For about a millennium, the authority of the Catholic Church reigned supreme over the Western world and with such social-political dominance came a largely unshaking recognition of its historical narrative. ***Historical truth was that which the Church said it was***, and the direction of history was dictated only by biblical prophecy and the eventual return of Christ. This is ***until the resurgence of classical intellectual thought***, starting in the 14th century. This period, dubbed the Renaissance, ***introduced a humanist mindset that fostered challenges to Church authority***. While most scholars of this era remained deists, a growing secularism began to eat away at the theological confirmations of Augustine’s day. Thinkers like **Jean Bodin** were outspoken in their condemnation of accepted Church history, especially in using the Bible as a source for historical information. In light of this rigorous questioning, _history was once again put to use outside of affirming church doctrine_, and writers like **Machiavelli** wielded history as a spyglass to aid in his contemporary politics. 

What began as Renaissance flirtations with secularism and questioning of the Church evolved into an era of unabashed probing of authority and dogma. With the Enlightenment of the 17th and 18th centuries came a new breed of public intellectual, the Philosophe, who made it their duty to empirically investigate the past. Doing so often involved coming to blows with established authority. **Voltaire**, for instance, made a habit of bemoaning not just the Catholic Church, but religion itself as being harmful. Thus, we can see how secularism came to true fruition during this period. Enlightenment thinkers are peculiar in their application of universal laws, as exist in scientific fields, to fields of human society. _Almost reminiscent of the Greek idea of an unchanging human nature, the Enlightenment quest for discovering the universal laws of history was often implemented in rather Machiavellian ways._ **Edward Gibbons** work detailing the history of the Roman Empire, for example, served to create a transnational European identity and place Western European civilization at the top of an arbitrary hierarchy of civilization.Somewhat ironically, the Enlightenment effort to question authority like never before and deconstruct existing dogma resulted in its own products being questioned and a new kind of social-political dogma, only this time dressed in the language of European supremacy rather than Church hierarchy.

The development of Critical History in the 19th century sprung out of the Enlightenment emphasis on empirical study of the past, stressing the need for a professionalization of history, including the use of primary sources, footnotes, and even graduate seminars to train historians. In contrast, the 19th century also spawned Romanticism, which in many ways rejected Enlightenment virtues. Shifting focus from accuracy to feeling, from discoverable facts to subjective interpretations, Romantic History intentionally diverged from the path the Enlightenment paved. Though, in fairness, historians like **Leopold Von Ranke** suggested that these two distinct approaches of history did not necessarily need to be at odds.  The 19th century is truly the zenith of the long running debate as to whether history should be categorized as an art or a science, but in either case ***the function of history remains the same – a tool for either challenging or upholding authority***. For instance, **George Bancroft** utilizes romantic history to recall a story of America caked in nationalism. Whereas, **Karl Marx** applied critical history to uncover the material conditions behind worker exploitation and call out the system of industrial capitalism (while also somewhat romanticizing the idea of a worker’s revolution).

All of this is to say that ***historiography appears to be inextricably linked with authority and truth***. The dominant authority in a given era always uses history to justify its version of the truth, such as how the Catholic Church used history for theological confirmations. Challenges to systems of authority tend to change the uses of history, like how history became a tool for political advancement/galvanization during the Renaissance and Enlightenment questionings of the Church. Finally, when the use of history changes, our conception of truth changes with it, as seen in how the dawn of romantic history ushered in a kind of subjective understanding of historical truth that would eventually lead to post-modernism. 
 
Questions: 
	_Do you consider respect for/challenge of authority as one of the key elements in the development of historiography?_
	
_After reviewing the development of historiography up until this point, can you explain the relationship between philosophy, history, and politics?_
