# Historiography Reflection
## _Taking into consideration the changing character of historical wirtting_

The way in which history is written plays a large part in the way people have been remembered. Points of view mixed with style and technique give voice to a story remembered, but is it the real story? The argument of how to gather and record history started early. Even the reason for recording events of the past that would turn into remembered History was argued and should be. Looking at these reasons and results has brought us to this point, reflecting upon the ways in which we use history today in our gathering and understanding of who we are. The purpose of history, the historian, and the pursuit of recorded historiography has changed over time bringing a larger, clearer picture into focus. 

In understanding how the story of history came to be and continues, it is important to understand the importance of being skeptical. We need to remember that much of history was recorded to promote a point of view, as stated by Michael Abonyi in his essay, _Why Historiography_.   Abonyi rightfully agues that a critical eye is necessary when revieing some historiography because, “absolute fact is a dangerous concept.” The stories are recorded from a point of view that might be true, but it is not the only point of view. Other views are out there and therefore, other historiographies of the same event are out there too. Each with a story, but how should this story be told? Are we aloud any room for interruption as historians? 

In determining the route to go, critical or romantic, the historian must decide the future fate of the history being preserved. Will it be only facts, or can we fill in the details, and should we? The light we shine on history has become more focused. The light can be harsh at times, and the historian tries to turn the events into a palatable story residents of the future can digest. A fine line is walked. Leopold Von Ranke changed the way history was studied during his time at the University of Berlin. He moved the historical study from hobby to critical analysis. Making History a true science when working with primary source materials. Ranke saw absolute truth, taking the road too far. Some of Ranke philosophy is needed today, mainly Primary source documentation. Peer review is another Ranke needed and used technique in historiography today. We do well to implore each when evaluating work from now and times before. Understanding the flow of history is a perspective that influences society. 

From the Enlightenment period, a move was made that helped move us along as historians who focus on critical thinking. The need for proof, and the need to keep research and result secular. That is, separate from theological history that might take the off ramp to romantic history a little to fast at times. Change was brought through this new thinking. Revolution was at hand in both country and individual. The historian advanced in cause at this time because of the advancement in ideas. Balance is needed, but it is easy to see the need for both critical analysis and basic good story telling to transmit the ideas that could change the world in time. 

Thucydides thought of history as ever evolving. Yet he was one of the first to include what we consider source material. He stepped away from theological timelines and relied only on the causations of people. He becomes the “father of scientific history.” We can use his techniques today yet approach the subject matter differently. That being people. Yet his avoidance of one science happens to be one we owe a debt of gratitude to today. 

Antiquarianism built a foundation for defining and analyzing source material that is used today. Organizing and determining items from the history helps draw a truer picture. This science was disregarded at first, but as we know today, provides endless usefulness and fascination in history and historiography.  Artistic style in writings, if used well, could be a rather useful means to transmitting knowledge to future generations, but it needs to be done in the light of source material and inclusion to be the true lantern upon history that historiography is supposed to provide. Francis Bacon in his quest for the scientific method completely forgot his own leanings into provable notions and delved head on into romantic story telling when recording the historiography of Henry VII. Keeping a middle path through the historical wilderness is essential in the life of todays historian. 

Our world view changed as the approach to history changed. This included a separation from the church. Public opinion changed as the approach to the here and now changed. The reformation is key to this transformation. Without the separation of divine causation, we would not have a history of humanity. This moment becomes they keystone in the arch of historiography. That change resulted in the way history was being viewed. It seems to have brought to the forefront a need to record our own history in a more scientific and inclusive voice. 

If we understand history as cyclical in nature, will be do better the next time this comes around? The ways in which historiography has changed the way we see history and thus society’s reaction to history. A linear approach to the timeline of history has pervaded the minds of historians today. We no longer find the seeds of tomorrow in the ruins of the past, but we can find a stronger truth and better way forward in linear understanding of history. In the discontinuation of cyclical thought, we approach our purpose as one that advances humanity for the better by telling more stories than ever before. This wholeness of historical narratives might lead to a light that sheds truth for all, not just some. 


- How can we as historians of today develope better techniques in story telling without influencing the history lived by the person? 

- How can a more scientific use of source material result in a story others will find meaningful? 
