We started out learning what are major reasons why people choose to get involved in the study of history. The most compelling reason that I certainly advocate for is that there are transferable skills one acquires when history is studied. For example, Southgate wrote about history being for the rich and the monarchy because they learned it to be able to best their peers and rivals with their understanding of historical events. This also ties into the facts that many politicians have tied learning history with politics, such as Niccolò Machiavelli. Even today, many people pair a history and political science degree because knowledge of one, helps the other.

Next, we the learned about one of the overarching themes that has continued to be spoken about in most of our early classes, which is the shift from cyclical to linear approaches to history. Many of the ancient Greek historians believed that history repeated itself with civilizations falling into the same patterns of rising and falling which in essence made many events and people irrelevant in the long run. Romans later believed they had broken the cycle with their civilization because theirs would be the final and best form of civilization that had ever been created. Obviously, Rome failed to live forever so new approaches began to emerge. Augustine later moved to a more linear approach believing that history does not repeat itself because there is a beginning that is moving towards an end.

I could not figure out when to bring this up in class, but I want to understand the connection between cyclical and linear history because I do not think cyclical understanding of history disappeared, it was sort of reinterpreted. William Robertson believed that civilizations came in four different levels which gave others an excuse to justify European explorers’ conquest of indigenous peoples. The explorers were only helping indigenous peoples, in a sense, “see the light” of progress and teach them the “proper” ways of European society.

Another major idea we have spent a lot of time do is the slow separation of divine intervention on history. The Greeks and Romans attributed most of what happened on the will of the gods. From our discussion in class, I got the impression that the Romans were less superstitious than the Greeks, so their mentions of the gods in their histories seemed to be more of an adlib, “do not forget to put Mars made us attack the barbarians.” 

Then came Christianity which made sure to interpret most historical events as divine will of God. Time was started by God, so anything from then happened because God made it so. This continued until the Renaissance because it was the time many people started questioning the Roman Catholic Church. Protestantism allowed for people to rethink the way the Catholic Church had taught history to people. 

The rise of Humanism was another reason that helped shift historical interpretation. Humanism gave more weight to human’s effects on everyday life. God was not the only reason events happened the way they did, it was humans that had the ability to create history.

I found the new, for the time, concept of Humanism to be very interesting because if God controlled everything, then why did anybody do anything? If it was ingrained in people that they had no effect on anything, then there should have been less change throughout history because people had no power to change it. It took an extreme amount of time and a major split in religion to make people believe that their free will was what made events happen.

The battle for history’s soul as to whether history is an art, or a science was an unexpected topic to learn about. My understanding was that history was an art because historians have to interpret and make history more accessible to the masses. I did not think about the methods used to verify history as a science because even when you have a lot of historical sources, it is up to the historian to give context to the evidence. To me this sounds like historians are artists using scientific methods.

The use of scientific methods such as citing sources or checking if these sources were credible did not start until the Enlightenment. This brings into question how much of pre-Enlightenment and post for that matter histories can be trusted as historical fact? Yes, there are definite ways to prove whether someone lived, or a battle happened but what about the histories written about them pre-Enlightenment? I bring this up because the class discussions really made me wonder how much of history is just dramatization.

Cheng wrote that many historians felt that it was important to dramatize history to get people interested, which I agree with, but that way of thinking breaks with the scientific need for histories to be trusted. There is a huge difference between taking educated guesses and dramatizing the gaps of knowledge. 

I sort of hit on this earlier but are cyclical and linear understanding of histories not both true? To be clear, there is a linear timeline, but history constantly repeats itself throughout time.
