	As we have discussed the developments in how history has been approached from antiquity through the Enlightenment, we have seen history evolve from a largely oral tradition deeply rooted in mythology and religion. The earliest stories in ancient Greece were filled with stories of how the will of the Olympian gods was at the heart of events in the human world. This connection between history and religion in antiquity was essential, as myths and stories from the past were used to convey religious practices and standards for moral behavior. This connection seems to be at the root of what MC Lemon called “the principle of growth” which is the idea that as people became more detached from the natural world, human thought began to be driven by a need to puzzle out the next logical step back and the next logical step forward in most situations. This process was enabled further by urbanization, which provided societies with the resources needed to support the study of history and further removed human thought processes from its ancient connection to the natural world. 

  As historians have adopted a more secular approach to their work, history has become more focused on the accurate assessment of events and the understanding of “laws of thought” rather than on pleasing the gods or understanding the cycles of the natural world. This is a significant departure from the myths and stories told by historians in antiquity which were focused on teaching moral and religious lessons. As human behaviors became a primary focus of historians, the distance between myth and historical writing grew, which laid the groundwork for the professionalization of historical writing. This professionalization process over the time periods we have discussed largely incorporated many of the different, often divergent approaches to history. This is one of the most interesting ideas that our class discussions have generated for me. I am increasingly fascinated by how much the approach to history has changed from religion-centered storytellers like Homer to people like Ranke who introduced a systematic training of historians, all while maintaining the importance of being able to learn from and even vicariously experience events. 
	
  As early as the Renaissance historians like Machiavelli were already beginning to move away from the religious emphasis on the natural world to a focus on human activity as the basis for historical events. Even though the question of whether history was an art or a science remained, Machiavelli was using the lessons he was learning from his historical studies to extrapolate important political lessons that could be put to use in his own time. I felt this was an essential development in historical thinking. Not only was the practice of learning lessons from past events and applying those lessons to contemporary problems useful for leaders reading Machiavelli’s work, but it also placed a premium on accuracy in historical works. This practical application of historical lessons made the work of Renaissance historians like Sleidan and Bacon even more important.
	
  Sleidan’s insistence that first-hand accounts of events were the only true historical proof is at the heart of later historians’ work. This reflects the need for historical understanding to be accurate, as erroneous information could now lead to misguided decisions. Historians would maintain Sleidan’s emphasis on primary sources, and many adopted Bacon’s practice of removing one’s own ideas on a subject from the study of that subject. Bacon’s practice of taking facts on their own terms was centered on the idea that in order to go beyond the authentication of facts and truly understand history, one had to go beyond establishing facts from primary sources and vicariously experience the past themselves. It seems to me like this kind of personal experience would lead to a deeper and more profound grasp of an historical event than the authentication of a primary source alone. While the accurate assessment of facts can only be comprehensively accomplished though examination of first-hand accounts, that offers only a vague academic understanding. I agree with Bacon’s assertion that a true understanding of an event can only be achieved though taking the facts established by primary sources and using them to put oneself in the time and place being studied. Experiencing the event themselves allows the historian to empathize with the people who actually participated in it. This offers a more comprehensive understanding history, as it offers the potential for the historian to feel what it was like to be present during an event. The personal and emotional connection to an event seems to be an indispensable component of historical thought.
	
  This idea was discussed in class when we covered Romanticism. The discussion of a painting depicting one of Napoleon’s battles that was technically not historically accurate stood out for me. While the exaggeration of the scale of the battle unquestionably added to the artistic value of the painting, I was struck by how the artists exaggeration served to more effectively convey how it would have felt to be a part of the battle myself. This was what I considered the central takeaway from our discussion on Romanticism and solidified the thoughts I had when reading about Bacon earlier in the semester. Even Ranke, who is widely regarded as key figure in the development of “scientific history”, whose work was central in establishing a systematic program for training historians and maintained a strict focus on footnotes and proper sources, viewed the pure view of history was the essential expression of God’s will. This perspective really brought my idea on how important incorporating having an experience of the past was essential to true understanding. Ranke saw this as God’s will, but as I see it, this is the core of historical truth.

How important is personally experiencing an historical event in achieving a comprehensive understanding?
