Write a ~1000 word reflection on the continuities and discontinuities in historical thinking and writing so far. Be sure to provide some SPECIFIC examples that are representative of the point you are trying to make. Also, include 1-2 big picture questions that we should address in class. 

At the beginning of the class we discussed what is history and what is the difference between history and the past. We also talked about why we should study history and the thought came to mind as to the reasoning behind many deciding to study history and the angles of what happens after learning about history, where do we as a society and as individuals go from there. I think that many study history to learn about past mistakes and how to make sure they aren't made twice, and to look at the advancements and progress we have made and how to push that even further to advance society and therefore the world further.I like to think of history as a past model of where the world was and where it could go. There was also this concept and question from the Renaissance readings about whether history and the study of was a science or part of the arts, and I would argue that it could be both because understanding emotions and the reasons behind past events and why people did what they did could be presented as an art form because artists draw from emotions to create their masterpieces and I think that's what historians do as well in order to understand the why part of studying history. On the opposite side of that spectrum it can also be said that history can be seen as being a part of science because first you have to look at the big picture and then use a step method of delving deeper into the why and the how.  I thought it was interesting how the concept of how history is analyzing the past and how the two are actually connected. In later weeks we discussed and I found the concepts of what constitutes as progress and the belief in fate and time and I think that it's interesting, especially in the Renaissance reading about how Augustine believed in the divine being the head ruler but also having people start to believe in themselves and speaking their minds about their view and opinions. It was discussed about how the Roman beliefs were in the thought that Rome and thereby the Roman empire was the top of the hierarchy and how the only level that was higher was the Heavens and how peoples whole soul purpose was to get to the top where God was, and I think this brings into question as to how people were to behave inorder to get to that point. The Roman Empire saw itself as the blueprint essentially of how the world should be seen or how all future empires all of the world should be. It's an interesting concept as to what constitutes asd fate and what makes time, and thereby what makes time a construct. Then in the readings from the Historiography book by Cheng, there was the discussion on the Enlightenment and those thinkers that really pushed the ideas of speaking for oneself. There was also the sense of people keeping their thoughts separate from the minds of the church, which was appealing because up until this point the church was the one with the control over the state and its affairs in how people should behave. It was with theological thinkers like Voltaire and Diderot who gave those people who thought that they had no voices or that their voices and thoughts were controlled by the church a chance to think about concepts differently. Once it came to thinking about how history and other professions were tied together, philosophical thinkers started to see and believe that the actions and thought process of the historian was different and should remain separate from the mindsets of the artists and the critical thinkers. In the Humboldt reading about the difference between the romanticized and the critical thinkers, he made a statement at the very beginning of the reading that stated that the historians main purpose was to think critically and not to get involved emotionally with the events of history. I made the statement about how Humboldt’s statement made sense because in order to get the big picture of the events of history, one must see from all angles but at the same time, I think it's fair to argue that one must also look at the events from the angle of the heart and the feelings in order to truly understand the deeper meanings behind the ways in which something became apart of human history. All this brings into question as to what the point of studying history is and from what lenses can you look through to see all the different angles of history? It would also be an interesting discussion to understand and debate in a way whether history belongs in the science category or the arts. I believe that studying history is different from studying the historiography of history because history and the past are in a way linked by events, and people. But the study of historiography I feel like is the dissection of history and those events and people, and to question everything and possibly try to make sense of things by looking at them from different perspectives.
