I think the most important continuity of historical thinking is circular history. This idea was of course believed in most heavily by the Greeks. They believed that humanity started off as tribal groups, slowly developed cities, and eventually destroyed themselves back down to the tribal level. They believed this happened over and over and could not be changed. I don’t believe that historical thinking completely resets, however it can be noted that it does go through “cycles.” The cycles could be marked by periods of more and less applications of logical reasoning. Firstly, during the time of the Rennaissance much more reasoning was applied to the past, in addition to individuals being willing to question societal authority such as the church. The best example of this would be Martin Luther with his thesis. This thought process of course gave rise to the Enlightenment in which further reasoning was applied to history. During this time people began to look through different lenses of history in that they sought to give up cultural, national, or religious biases. During this time many of the concepts developed by philosophers such as Locke and Voltaire came into being. Interestingly enough this “height” of human thinking quickly led to a dip in the application of logical reasoning. In this case reasoning being the ability to view history through different lenses of biases. This came in the form of nationalism in the time following the American and French Revolutions. During this time a Eurocentric view of history continued with a strong emphasis that Europeans should try and educate the less advanced civilizations of the world. In looking at the world soley through a Eurocentric lens a decrease in reasoning occurred, and arguably began a new cycle of logical reasoning. The modern day could be seen as a continuation of the cycle in that historians often try to approach history from a neutral standpoint. A conundrum presents itself, however, in that in claiming to be more on the side of logic than those in the past are we not showing signs of their self-pride?  

 

Another continuity throughout history is the level of romantic history appearing throughout time. In the time of the romans this was based around the Greeks and their foundation of philosophy. Next the Rennaissance traced its roots back to the Romans with the redevelopment of many art and architecture styles that were common in the Roman era. Finally, the Enlightenment continued humanistic developments in the Rennaissance. Finally, romantic histories flourished in the light of nationalism with many nations romanticizing their heroes and origins as well as demonizing their enemies. This can be seen most clearly in the American view of the founding fathers for a positive light, and British propaganda leading many to believe Napoleon was extremely short for a negative light. More likely than not this reappearance of romantic history throughout time was due to nations seeking to validate their claim to power much in the same way kings once claimed to be crowned by God. In the end how can one question a government right to rule when their founders were incredible philosophers who managed to defeat the most powerful empire in the history of the world.  

 

A large discontinuity through history would be the slow burn of the decrease in power of religious forces in history. This of course began with the Greeks with their view gods made the world, and history should therefore originate with them. From there a linear view of history began to erode the base of religions power in that the gods were no longer the source and origin of history. Furthermore, a humanist mindset further worked to erode religion as Gods and mythological beings were no longer seen as the main thing that should be recorded in history. This isn’t to say that people such as the Christians didn’t declare God to be the reason for everything that happened, rather than humans were how history moved forward. The next large erosion of religious power came through the Enlightenment when philosophers became more willing to question societal authority such as the government as well as the church. From here we get concepts such as the separation of church and state which greatly decreased the value of the church. After this point the church became only a social structure as opposed to the authoritarian strength it once had. Additionally, this argument isn’t to say that the church was no longer powerful after the rise in popularity of humanist and linear history, but rather to point out that religion was no longer as powerful a point in history as it had once been in the early days of humanity. At certain times after the advent of these histories, the church was one of the two pillars which upheld society as it was called. Furthermore, it had extreme political power in that during the Crusades it was able to call forth many thousands of troops from different European countries to send thousands of miles away to fight for a land that no one had ever been to. Clearly this power was of an absolute authoritarian nature for a long period of time.  

 

Another discontinuity came in the form of our view on history. This is to say that cyclical history once dominated the early Greek way of viewing history. Clearly, we no longer view history as quite as cyclical as the Greeks did, however an argument can be made that it still applies. As the Greeks did not believe there was a way to change the cyclical nature of history, they had no reason to try and apply its lessons. One of the best people who was able to apply the lessons of history was Machiavelli. In his writings we can see clear attempts to draw information from the past to try to apply to the present. Best examples include attempting to draw political parallels between Rome and its subsidiary states to the larger city states and smaller states of Rennaissance Rome. In the modern day, we try to draw lessons from history in hopes to not repeat them. This might take the form of pushing for civil rights, or trying to right the wrongs of the past. Whether or not we are successful is irrelevant to understanding that our “purpose” for recording history has changed since the Greek’s circular view of history.  

 

1) To what degree can simply “being human” be responsible for much of history? 

2) Does religions power within history operate on a cyclical history?  