# Historiography So Far...

When studying history as a discipline over the span of almost 2000 years, certain themes can exhibit prevalence, varying in importance, and ebbing and flowing throughout time. **Time** itself is a theme, with its comprehension  changing as the years progress. 

**Greek historians** viewed time from a dramatically **cyclical** and cosmic standpoint, based on the natural world. Their purpose for studying history, therefore, was to bring order and reason to the chaotic and wild cosmos which they resided. Although the Ancient Greek study of history was focused on recording life as it happened, without any particular **agendas**, they, in particular the Greek stoics, were also convinced that because of the cyclical nature of time, history was bound to repeat itself. The combination of the Greek's fatalistic attitudes towards the structure of time, and their deep seated need to bring order to the universe was an attribute in their philosophical downfall. 

Whereas Greek historians didn't have many agendas in their historical documentation, **Roman historians** were determined to use history to their advantage, using their writings to **create and justify** their own identity and power. In the beginning, Romans also viewed history from a cyclical perspective, although not as literally as the Greeks did, instead equating time and history to the ascensions and decensions of important **political** empires. 

The philosopher **St. Augustine** presented the first massive **paradigm shift in temporal and historical understanding**. A citizen of the Roman Empire, Augustine brought forth both a **linear and religious** perspective. Augustine's concept of a linear historical timeline was firmly based on God's structured purpose for all of humanity, and while the importance of **religion** in historiography has ebbed and flowed, as we shall see, the basic understanding of **time** being a linear structure has more or less maintained throughout the ages.   

**The Renaissance** saw a rise and development in many important historiographical themes such as **humanism and individuality**, **secular vs. religous histories**, **history as science or art**, and the continuation of history to advance **political and national agendas**. All of these concepts, which had their birth during the early modern period, continue to be explored in further detail and with significant debate, throughout the next several centuries. 

Occaissionally Renaissance historians like Jean Bodin encapsulated all of these themes, contriving ideas which were deemed controversial at the time. Bodin explored the concepts of a combination of secular *and* religious history, as well as history as a science *and* and art. These things did not need to be mutually exclusive in Bodin's mind, but rather should be viewed as multiple pieces of a whole picture. Francis Bacon, similarly to Bodin, saw the need to incorporate civil, ecclisiastical, and literary history together at the same level, as opposed to religious history taking center stage. While Bacon also championed empirical historical analysis, he was also heavily prejudiced in his writings due to his personal and political relationships. 

**The Enlightenment** brought with it an even greater divide between **secular and religious thinking**, conceptions of the importance of the dicipline of history, a more expansive historical lens, and a staunch belief in **universal laws**. Historians like Voltaire made comparisons to the decline in religious thinking and the rise of humanistic, artistic, and scientific history. And while Enlightenment thinkers expanded their knowledge to include farther reaching peoples, cultures, and ideas into their portfolios, they also applied **Eurocentric ideals** and **perspectives** to that which they learned. 

Along with shifting themes in historical thought, The Enlightenment also saw varying branches in the *application* of historical thought. **Philosophers** primarily worked towards an understanding of historical theory, whereas **Philosophes** put real world historical methods, such as using archival sources as critical analysis, into action. 

As the **timeline** continued on into the 19th Century, the themes we have consistently seen ebb and flow throughout history continue to expand and grow, with historical thinkers continuing to interpret them based on a multitude of agendas and cultural and social lenses. 

Both **Romanticism** and **Critical History**, which we see bits and pieces of in the decades and centuries prior become more prevalent, particularly as the reliance of **religious** history moves towards the back burner. The debate between **art vs. science** reaches its nexus, and while many historians during this period typically favor one over the other in their approaches, it is important to remember, that they do not need to be mutually exclusive. 

A romantic historical viewpoint showcases **history as beauty and entertainment**, a way to bring important historical concepts, themes, events, and people to the mainstream, transforming it into an visceral experience. Who said that history had to be boring, anyway? Critical history, or the scientific arm of this debate, however, looks at the facts from primary sources, ensuring that **methodical and rigorous analysis** is done to ensure accurateness, which often led to a dull read. 

**Leopold Von Ranke** among other historians of the time, attempted to reconcile these two viewpoints. Ranke, despite additional agendas and bias, was rather successful in **combining the artistic with the analytic**, packaging and professionalizing history by teaching his methods in graduate seminars. 

Looking back at the historiography that we have covered so far in the class, it is easy to become somewhat overwhelmed by the scope and depth of it all. Philosophy is a fuzzy conecpt for me to grasp even on a good day, and so by breaking it down by historical themes, it becomes somewhat clearer. Whatever they may be, **historical themes** **viewpoints** and **priorities** will continue to rise and fall, expand and detract, just like the empires and ages and various timelines that they came from. 

A few questions:
1. What are you finding the most difficult about this class so far? Are there concepts that are more confusing than others? 
2. Out of the entirety of history, do you think that there is an overarching theme that is more important to grasp than all others? 
