Reading Reflection Overview 
	
Well it’s been quite a wild ride through the process of Historiography which I have now learned is the process of writing of History and how that has changed throughout time. We also saw how people throughout the time periods  have been looking at History and how their thoughts and ideas about the historical narrative have changed and evolved throughout time as well. In this reading reflection I’ll go through the different eras in time to show the difference of opinions and how they were sometimes opposed and how sometimes they were combined and influenced each other. Let’s take a look at what we have been studying over these last few weeks. 
	
The first people we looked at the Greeks and the Romans had an interesting view on time and progression and how that related to History. Greeks and Romans saw time as cyclical and where different types of government and rulers rise, rule and fall and eventually come back again and again. We later see how Greeks and Romans also interpreted History as a function of Biology where you take what happens to the human body where you are born you reach maturity than old age and then death. Another concept that came up in the Greco/ Roman interpretation of time was the idea of “Fate” and “Fortune” Your fate was something that you couldn’t control rather Fate could literally be seen as a God who could bless you or curse you due to the cyclical nature of time that they prescribed to. Also, Fortune was seen by the Greeks and Romans as a moral force that would reveal itself by your deeds and acts.  
Later in the readings we were introduced to Judeo/Christian interpretations of time with the ideas of Augustine and how he made the case of a linear interpretation of time where time is unfolding on a linear path set forth by an all-knowing God. Augustine also argued for rational thinking that we are moving forward towards and eventual end but in that time, we are gaining knowledge and experience and we were a part of the all-knowing Gods plan. 

Moving on we next read about the Renaissance and with that came historical writing that started to distance itself from a worldview that was centered on the church and was taking a more secular approach. We also see writers of this time looking at the Romans and Greeks and seeing them is very distant civilizations which were quite fascinating to the writers of the Renaissance. Another distinction that were read about Renaissance History writers was how they were willing to embrace change how they were willing to embrace new ideas about how to write History. Writers like Francisco Guicciardini who believed that Florence was just getting out of a “Golden Age” and we see that he was searching for historical observations as to why Florence’s Golden Age had ended. There was greater concern for historical explanations took great concern during the Renaissance. We also see how Machiavelli tries to explain how to acquire and keep power from looking at past civilizations. Also, Machiavelli and other Renaissance writers were looking at the concept of fortune as not something associated with divine intervention but something secular that could be influenced and controlled. 

Next, we moved on to Enlightenment thinking. Enlightenment thinking had a strong emphasis on reason and was closely associated with the scientific revolution at the time as well. Enlightenment thinkers and writers had the belief that if humans could use their reason they would be able to better understand their world that was governed by universal laws and that would lead to progress and improve society.  With the enlightenment we also see the term “Philosophe” come into use the difference that we saw from the term Philosopher and Philosophe was that Philosophe was that Philosophe’s saw the world entirely though a Enlightenment lens where the use of reason was most important. While reading about the Enlightenment we saw it was also very Eurocentric and it seemed like the “Philosophes” believed that the Reason established and used by European people was where people from the rest of the world should try to attain. This type of thinking led to some catastrophic outcomes for people outside of the European Enlightenment bubble with regards to conquest. Some Enlightenment thinkers began to excuse destruction and conquest of indigenous people’s civilizations because the Europeans were bringing them out of their brutish backwards existence and this was overall good thing for the progress of society. 

The next groups of writers we looked at after the Enlightenment were romantic and critical historians. When we look at Romantic History we see a huge emphasis on style and dramatic elements to help engage the reader to make the piece of History seem urgent or timely. We a new concept that was different from enlightenment thinking that with enlightenment thinkers they believed that reason would lead to progress that these ideas were waiting to be discovered but with romantic thinkers they believed that ideas and creativity produced by the individual would lead to progress in society the idea of being a lamp instead of a mirror in society was quite different from the enlightenment standard.  By doing this the romantic historian can make History come alive for the reader and also this dramatization of the historical narrative can help bring in a larger more engaged audience that is interested in learning about a certain topic or person in History. The problem with this is that the past starts to become embellished and can be distorted and maligned to fit a political purpose. In class we also spoke on how any retelling of a Nation’s History is always Romantic that it’s really hard to get away from it. Next, we looked at the concept of Critical History which was concerned only with the facts and to get as clear cut as you could possibly be. This type of writing is important with regards to the use of vetting primary sources and fact checking but as we saw later in the Cheng chapter is that both approaches could be used together in order to help drive a historical narrative that could be both informative and entertaining to the reader while being able to explain a past event. I like how we discussed the combining of both of these types of writing and it seems like being human we crave both fact and a dramatic narrative in order to better understand and interpret past events. 

In conclusion we can see how different civilizations had different views on Historical writing.   We see how Historical writers from different eras thought about writers from past eras and I think that’s been the most intriguing part of the whole course that the influence be it positive or negative from past eras or the complete break away from past perspectives is a theme that I’ve recognized in our readings. The writing and interpretations on how historians write about the past is complicated and interwoven and that’s what makes it so interesting for me. 

Questions 

I come back to the idea of “History is written by the winners” what can we do to help better understand history that wasn’t written down or was destroyed by the winners? How do we treat first-hand accounts that maybe are oral histories that haven’t been written down?

What is the stage of Historical writing we are in now? Has there been any historical writing that can take us into a new stag of Historical writing? 
