*So far*, our readings and class discussions have centered around the cultural and social ideas of different time periods which then dictated how history was studied and written about in that era.  Historical thinking overall has changed as each major shift in cultural and social norms occurs.  This was essentially a reflection of what society and intellectuals felt was worthy of remembering and of what fit the needs of that specific time period and/or social dynamic.

With the rise in scientific and secular thought, the way history was studied and portrayed changed dramatically, providing a stark contrast and break to how classical and medieval thought approached the idea of historical study.

**Greek** historical writing tended to reflect the established philosophical ideals of cyclical nature, meaning that the never-ending pattern to what human beings experience over time dictated what definitive events would occur next.  This must have been a somewhat comforting idea since historic events could be easily understood and labeled.  

That was the goal of Greek historiography, to define events and gain a sense of control over what they believed would be the inevitable next step in the cycle.  This was also something that **Roman** historians believed, but their own hubris led them to think that Roman civilization was the pinnacle of mankind’s achievement and there was no further progress to be made.  Of course, everyone knows how Rome declined and gradually faded into other civilizations.   Perhaps this was how the idea of *Fate* coalesced with Roman historical thought, in that the Empire’s fate had been determined despite its best efforts to avoid decline.

**Augustine’s** writings also greatly influenced not only religious and theological doctrine for the early Christian church, they also defined what history was to the early medieval thinker.  His concepts of linear historical narrative would begin the goal of historic philosophy as that of recognizing human progress.  This is a *huge shift* from the classical thought of cyclical time in which things were more easily defined.  With Augustine’s premise of linear history, human progress could be viewed as an upward (albeit a slow) trend, and it was ingratiated with the religious ideals of the Roman Catholic church and its doctrines.  

The concept of linear history and its religious implications were continued in the Renaissance and Early Modern periods.  With figures like **Machiavelli**, perceptions of right and wrong as defined in historical terms also became prevalent to historic thought.  His use of vice and virtue narratives aided in creating his own intellectual agenda, specifically in that he wanted to use historical examples of *“good”* and *“bad”* leadership in order to educate the ruling elite on how to maintain power.  

**Humanistic** ideologies also became crucial to the evolution of historic theory, especially as it greatly impacted Renaissance and Early Modern culture overall.  The focus of human experiences became critical in this time period, coupled with the fact that religious influences were starting to become minimized in terms of explaining why events occurred.  

**Petrarch**, with all of his biased opinions on early medieval thought, was perhaps unwittingly promoting this somewhat new ideology in allowing for divine intervention in human affairs to be sidelined.  Instead, the focus of historical study was slowly shifting to embrace scientific thought as the defining theme to studying and writing about it overall (as seen in the ideas of **Jean Bodin** and **Francis Bacon** as well).  

Protestant histories bucked this trend by emphasizing the religious influences in what **William Bradford** portrayed as divine intervention in the establishment and successful settlement of early American colonies.  His ideologies of religiously relevant history were in stark contrast to the scientific approaches that were evolving at the time.

Enlightenment thinking was summed up by the use of reason, and this applied not only to history but most other academic studies.  This new era was the culmination of all historic ideologies up to this time, in a word, it can be viewed as the amalgamation of historic studies up to the 18th century.  Figures like **Voltaire** wanted to completely divorce religion from historic ideals, and he even began to include diverse narratives in an otherwise overtly Eurocentric viewpoint.  

Unlike the approach of **John Selden**, Voltaire also rejected the blending of antiquarianism and historic narratives, slighting the idea of using primary sources as something tedious and unworthy of philosophical history in general.  This would prove to be completely backwards with the advancing ideals of Critical History.

This new inclusion of other social histories and primary sources into an otherwise European vacuum would evolve to become Critical Historic Theory.  This evolution can be viewed in stark contrast to the narratives the Romantic historical approach, specifically as it applies to the writings of **Francis Bowen**, whose own writings were punctuated by highly *dramatic* language, implying that to study and write history, one must be artistic as well as scholarly.  

This movement did open doors for the general public to become much more interested in history as a genre of study, since many Romantic history writers employed *colorful* narratives that captivated their audiences.  Despite this newfound popularity, *Critical History* was firmly rooted in using the scientific methods that had been continuously built upon since **Bacon** and **Selden** espoused the need for a codified approach to the study.  Figures like **Leopold von Ranke** wanted to promote the idea of *history for its own sake*, but he also wanted to appeal to the public.  His efforts produced a synthesis of both Romantic and critical historical thought, in a sense, providing a contradictory stance.

So, here’s a *summary* of what we have read and discussed so far: classical cyclical history was rejected, linear time was then made key along with the blending of religious influences, only to be minimized by the emphasis on human experience, then science takes over and tries to displace all religious overtones, only to be sidelined itself and given a backseat to the overly-dramatic and highly idealized histories that were culminating around nationalism and the longing for a time in the past that was not so scientific.  All of this is fades to the background when **Ranke**, **Humboldt**, and the critical theory of history begins, establishing history as a profession and assigning it a serious level of study and scientific discourse that it had not yet been held to. 

*– Phew!-* 

*For further thought:*

Up to now, we have seen the shifting of historical theory that coincided with cultural and social changes.  What are the next steps in historiographic studies, based on what we generally understand about history from the end of the 19th century onward?

Can general historical studies be viewed in completely scientific terms or will it always include some notion of Romantic thought, contradictions in approach (as seen in Ranke’s writings), or religious overtones?
