# Review So Far #

What a start to the semester, am I right? We've looked at a large part of history and have partially come to terms with the idea that history is not linear or cyclical, but a path of *evolution*. In class, we’ve alluded to the fact that history seems to take a step forward while seemingly taking a couple of steps back when it comes to historical recordings and its apparently inherent use for *nationalism*, *religious* purposes, *humanist* purposes, *Romantic* purposes. **It is my opinion that it in the histories we’ve learned about so far, nationalism, religion, and whether to take a humanist approach are the continuities and discontinuities of history**. Every era of history has had its own debate on what history is for; is it for learning from the past? Is it to use for the future? How does history benefit humans, empires, religious institutions? The same question we ask ourselves in class I’m certain came up for Machiavelli, Bede, Ranke, and Marx. And it is my honest opinion that it will continue to be asked, long after we have made our contributions to history.

We know that history is written and presented for consumption by the winners, but that doesn’t mean that there are other truths that don’t also exist within the realm of history. In the first week, as we were learning about the Greco-Roman philosophical and biological approach to history, we learned that these historians were asking themselves where they fit into history that seemed to be cyclical. How did they break out of this cycle? We’ve seen firsthand just how desperate the Romans were to not fall into the cyclical history they saw other empires fall into. It was the Greco-Roman histories that first showed us how histories can be used to further **religious** purposes and **nationalist** purposes (although we don’t yet call it nationalism. Not yet).

Of course, we know that the Roman Empire declines and decays into modern Western Civilization as we know it, the death of the Roman Empire births the Early Modern Renaissance movement and a fresh take on history and historical writing. It is here that Renaissance historians begin to turn to themselves and how they fit into history, unlike what the Romans believed. Renaissance historians were more interested in how their view of history impacted *humans* and the way they lived in *their* time. This is the first time we see the **humanist** approach to history take hold; no longer will religion and “divinity” take place in histories, but more of a direct human link to history and how humans play a role in their history as they live it.

With the Renaissance came the criticization of religion and eventual Reformation, and Enlightenment furthered this approach. Humanistic approaches from the Renaissance have now turned into empiricism and individuality, where history is transforming into a profession with meanings not to be rooted in nationalism or religion, but for humanity to learn the *“truth”* from. Still, we are only humans and as historians those histories can be for us to interpret and create the “truth”. I know I shouldn’t group Renaissance and Enlightenment but the two do truly go together in that they’re where the continuities of history come together as one. It is during the Renaissance and Enlightenment where we see movements of nationalism and religion being accepted or denied because of their inherent histories.
We talk a lot about whether history is cyclical; does history truly repeat itself or have we just let past historians down and not learned from history as we should? What does it mean to learn from history? Last week in class, Professor Gibbs made a point to ask if history was nationalistic? Is it? When you think about it, history has its nationalist tones (i.e., *Mein Kompf,* US History textbooks, etc.) that in some cases can be used to further nationalist agenda with historical evidence but can also be for a nation to learn its history from a certain perspective. It is an argument that is as cyclical as history seems to be—but that may also just be from *perspective.* 

Earlier I had stated that there are some examples of Rome using a nationalist view of history to try to break the cycle of empires falling. Rome believed themselves to be the best of the best, unable to fall into the pits of infamy and decline, but they were wrong; yet did they not *try* to learn from history to *not* make the mistakes made before them? So, how do we end up here in 2021 where the nationalist history of the United States is being challenged by Enlightenment-era thinkers who plan for a more neutral truth like Critical Race theory and diverse historical education for general education? I don’t mean to get political, because in truth it *isn’t* political, but have we not learned to learn from the mistakes of the past? I think it is only in the last 200 years where we begin to see the discontinuities of history (nationalism, religion, humanistic approaches) become to be blurred as agendas and personal biases.

Nationalism and religion have been prevalent in history since the very beginning, humanistic approaches only more prevalent in the last 350 years. Where we see the discontinuity is the way in which each is used *for* history. Nationalism is not inherently bad, truly it can be used to unify the people of a country (i.e. British people during the Blitz in WWII), and religion can bring together like minded people whose only goal is to come together for the religion they love. And still, we see both being used to start wars, conquer lands, and harm people. We choose to treat human beings as we see fit, when we wish (i.e. the Renaissance being a humanist approach to history, but Critical history being an approach to humanity without any humanity, opinion, etc.) 

**Big picture questions**

*How do we see historical approaches to nationalism and religion rise, and be accepted in historical writings after Romantic and Critical history?*

*Does the study of history change with time, or does only the outlook of history change with time?* Meaning, do we look at the study of history in the same respect as the outlook of history at the time?
