Perhaps the most pervasive continuity in pre-modern historiography is the overarching belief in cyclic modes of history. The origin of this vein of thought is not hard to imagine. The natural world is full of cycles, and as humanity became more interested in understanding the natural world and man’s place in it, the first ancient historians could not have helped but notice the ubiquitousness of natural cycles: from the cycles of birth, life, and eventual decay of living things to diurnal night and day processes and annual seasonal change. Human beings, being part of this natural world, were seen as also embedded in cyclical modes. The Greeks had many such beliefs in cycles on short and long time scales. An example of this is Hesiod’s Ages of Man, an interpretation of history later adopted and refined by the Romans (specifically Ovid). In this cyclical conception of history, mankind is imagined to be caught in a slowly evolving whirlpool of successive ages, from a Golden Age to a Silver Age, a Bronze Age, and finally an Iron Age. Similarly, the Greeks conceived political history as being necessarily cyclical as well (Anacyclosis) in which human governments progressed naturally from monarchy, to kingship (a “good king”), tyranny, aristocracy, oligarchy (rule by the few), democracy, and finally ochlocracy (mob rule) which eventually itself degenerates back into a monarchy.

This cyclical view of history was pervasive enough to last through the Middle Ages to the Renaissance and influenced writers such as Machiavelli. Though he did not explicitly share the view that governments must always progress through the cycle in succession, he did adopt Polybius’s version of the cycle as a model for how governments alternate governance styles. In addition, Machiavelli looked back on the Classical world as an ideal to return to - itself a cyclical view of history that conceived of the contemporary time period as something lesser than a previous Golden Age - something Hesiod would surely identify with as he conceived of his own time period as being a barbaric “age of iron” in contrast to the glories of the past.

The idea of historical cycles can even be seen in later works of history and historiography in the Enlightenment. For example, Edward Gibbon’s The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire incorporates elements of cyclical history. In his work, he expounds on the idea that the rise of the Roman Empire contained the seeds of its eventual destruction - in his view, it is through the natural course of empire that a civilization becomes great, but ultimately complacent and soft as hardships are removed and prosperity reigns, leading to corruption and decay and ultimately collapse and destruction. The cyclical theory of imperial history was very influential through the Romantic period and can been explicitly seen in paintings from that era such as Thomas Cole’s The Course of Empire, depicting the Roman Empire from its “savage,” natural, prehistoric state, through an idyllic pastoralist rise to its peak and eventual destruction and decay as the empire becomes extinct.

However, Edward Gibbon also took note of the differences between his contemporary time period and that of the Romans, breaking from hardline, cyclical interpretations by noting “the progress of Europe as a whole,” an apparent upward trajectory of human society so that his cycle became more of an upward spiral. Similarly, the conception of the Four Empires promulgated by the Book of Daniel was challenged by Jean Bodin, who noted the savagery of the so-called ages of gold and silver in comparison to the “civilized behavior and well-regulated society such as we now have everywhere.” Challenging cyclical history narratives was not restricted to Enlightenment writers, however. Among the most famous rejections of cyclical modes of history comes from St. Augustine, who wrote of the unbroken path of human development that brought humanity ever closer to the City of God - an explicitly linear interpretation.

Another common continuity (and eventual discontinuity) in historiography is the belief in divine intervention, in one way or another, that was slowly undermined and eventually discarded by historians. The Greeks conceived of the natural world as full of gods and deities, often capricious, who intervened in human and natural affairs regularly and at their whim. This manifested as the belief in Fate or Fortune. However, through the Renaissance and Enlightenment, historians started to view history through a more materialist and rationalist lens, viewing history primarily as the result of human actors and actions and less as the results of direct divine intervention. Guicciardini and Machiavelli emphasized these elements, describing Fortune as subject to human influence and able to be guarded against by “taking precautions.” John Selden is known for analyzing the history of religious practices (specifically tithes) in terms of secular forces - breaking from the tradition of viewing religious functions as ordained by God. Similarly, though intensely religious himself, William Bradford saw history as the result of Providence acting through secular agents. Thus, history became an investigation into the secular causes of events as secondary manifestations of God’s will on earth.

Finally, the purpose for doing history shifted - first as a medium to impart important lessons to the reader and eventually to investigating the true causes for factual events. Ancient and medieval writers, such as Herodotus, are known for fabricating stories, especially speeches, and relaying them in their histories as historical fact. A famous example of this are the transcriptions of Pope Urban II’s call for crusade at the Council of Clermont in 1095. Most of those transcriptions were written long after the fact and by “witnesses” that were not even present to hear the original speech. The only writer who did witness the speech, Fulcher of Chartres, wrote his transcription six years later. The idea for these historians was not to chronicle exactly what was said but rather what should have been said.

History writing took on more secular and practical overtones in the Renaissance and Enlightenment, when legal investigations led to more emphasis being put on primary documents as sources rather than second-hand chronicles, themselves compiled from other secondary sources. Eventually, writers such as John Selden introduced a synthesis between antiquarianism and traditional historical writing, incorporating investigations in philology to establish the “truthiness” of a claim by examining everything known about its context, a process he termed synchronism.

Doesn’t all historical writing have the goal of imparting some lesson to the reader or making a statement about the subject in question? Are there any examples of historical writing that do not seek to do this (such as chronicles?) and just how useful are these?
