## Review so Far

Up to this point so far in the class we have dicussed the *history of history*, that is, historiography, up to the point of the enlightenment. We have discussed the philosophy and thoughts of historians over time regarding how history works and ought to be written. from the ages of classical antiquity to the age of enlightenment. In this very long span of time there have been many thoughts about the nature of history, what the purposes of writing history should be or are, as well as what the methodologies of writing history ought to be. Put simply and vaguely, historiography has changed a lot over time but at the same time there have been certain continuinties in historiographical thinking.

Beginning with Homer, (and likely other writers) the recording of history in the western world is understood to have begun with the documentation of oral stories about the past into books in the forms of epic poetry. These very early histories had a very spiritual and mystical quality in the same vein as Greek mythology. This evolved into the works of Herodotus, Thucydides, and Polybius, who transformed the writing of history from something semi-mythological to something a lot more scientific, looking for facts and truth in historical inquiry.

This tradition then influenced Roman historians, who took on a more *national* approach. That is, they used the writing of history to explain and justify the phenomenon of success of the Roman Republic. These histories, written by Livy, Tacitus, and the like were exclusive by nature. They excluded polities and peoples outside of the yoke of Roman identity, as well as the lower classes within Roman society, as these histories were written by elites about the great men of Rome's past, in an act of what I would like to call "Roman Exceptionalism". 

During the Medieval period, historiography generally understood to have suffered from a lack of development, or perhaps even of a regression. This is largely because histories written at this time (generally between the 5th and 15th centuries CE) are known to be mostly chronicles, or the listing of events over time in a document usually organized by year. Additionally the criticism and citing of sources was not conceived of as an important practice as of yet. Despite this, two of some of the most important developments in historiography occured at this time: the citing of sources and the popularization of the AD dating system we use today (AD often being secularized to CE). Both of these occurences are attributed to English historian Bede.

During the Renaissance, new philosophies of history emerged. The most notable of these is humanism. Humanism in historiography is essentially the writing of history in a manner which emphasizes the causal relation between humans and the events which occur in time, rather than appealing to perceived religious causes or framing histories in a religious context, which was very common prior to the Renaissance. Religious references were often still made, but they had taken a back seat to the human actors in the documentation of history. Additionally, many historians and intellectuals of the time, such as Niccolo Machiavelli, emphasized the utility of history. For example, Machiavelli wrote about historical events so as to inform readers about his thoughts on the best way a state should govern. One last development of this time is cultural history, wherein the past occurences of different cultures and ethnicities is documented, rather than the histories being solely about politics or military affairs.

Finally, we get to enlightenment historiography, where human reason is valued above all else, and the developments of the Renaissance are furthered, such as the onset of *empiricism* which believes that knowledge is derived from the senses, as well as in the normalization of writing history in secular terms. The Enlightenment was focused on revealing the objectivity of historical events, the prioritization of fact-finding, the perception that all time periods were unique in themselves, and the idea that politics is central to all of human history.

Now that the history of historiography has been summarized, i have two questions I seek to answer. The first is *what are some of the continuities in historiographical thinking?* One continuity is that the methods of writing history are all in flux. Different historians in differnt time periods have different approaches and different methods for writing their histories, never seemingly quite satisfied with doing it exactly the way the last era or school of historiians did it. Another continuity is that these historians felt somehow that the documentation of historical events is important for some reason. Whether to argue that Rome is somehow different than other civilizations and empires or to justify some political actions, the written histories serve some purpose. Even the chroniclers of the Medieval periods, who just listed events, did so because it was important to them or those who employed them to do such chronicling.Even though they may not have explicitly stated agendas in their writing, there is some purpose to it, even if it is as simple as merely listing off occurrences that are seen as important. 

The next question is *what are the differences over time in historiogrphical thinking?* There are many differences in the practice over time, but the trend generally, at least up to the point of the Enlightenment, is one tending toward a focus on objectivity and the uncovering of historical truth. Originally, histories were taken as truth if they were widely believed, regardless of what may have actually happened or not. Eventually, though, this grew to not be enough. As long as it may have taken, historians eventually grew more critical of their sources of information, in an attempt to separate fact from fiction in what their sources might have to say. Other diferences include the overall philosophies of the purposes of the individual histories. In writing their histories, the individual historians had to ask themselves *what is the purpose of this history?* with many answers to that question which have already been discussed, such as the cause of "Roman Exceptionalism" the justification certain political actions, the simple documentation of events, or the quest for objective truth in history. One final difference in historiographical thinking over time is the conception of history and the debate between cyclical or linear history. Does history come and go in cycles of events which are essentially the same as the last, or are all historical events wholly unique? My understanding of the histoy of historiographical thinking leads me to believe that over time that latter grows more favored while the latter progressively falls out of favor.

Overall, the methods and philosophy of historiography has changed a lot over time. Much moreso than it has stayed the same.The history of history writing is itself long and nuanced, and like all histories that are long and nuanced, as time goes on, the more that changes and the less that stays the same.