# Continuities and Discontinuities	

During the time period between 5 BC and 1910 AD in Europe and America, empirical and secular evidence, and social and political ideologies have remained constant frameworks in history, while there were significant changes to methodology and philosophy, they became constant fixtures throughout history. Although some history had been written before the 5th century, Herodotus was the first to catalogue and complete a series of volumes of histories from sensory accounts, secondary sources, and oral traditions. Herodotus spoke of worldly cultures, expressed about governing authorities and social, political, and military feats and follies, and allowed human emotions to dictate the stories. Herodotus overtly avoided the existential realms of myth and antiquity and marginalizes the earlier classic works of “poetic history” like Homer and Hesiod. His approaches laid a primitive foundation for all historical philosophy and methodology. 

During the time period of 5th to 4th BCE, the Age of Empires, war, and domination caused many things to change in the way people saw each other in the world. One change that occurred was the expression of cosmopolitan views. The reason for this change is because of warring empires expanding their territories and absorbing new cultures with their own social identity. Social identity was basic loyalty confined to the city-state or kingdom. An example of this would be, at the time, social identity to the Greeks was either associated with the Hellenic group or a city-state and anyone not Greek was a barbarian. This histories discontinuity then became a continuity when Herodotus’ Histories, a collection of stories and cultures he encountered during his travels from Africa to Persia, opened new histories beyond the status quo. Again, this appears in the Enlightenment with philosophes Diderot, who used progressive cosmopolitan views to write the Encyclopédie, which was a guide to understanding the world. This began as discontinuity in history, worldly views, to continuity that would be seen again during the American Revolution of 1776. 

During the time period 5th-4th BC, as new cultures are absorbed by exploration and conquering, Herodotus changed history by compiling a record of major historical events causing many things to change in the approach and methodology of history because it had never happened before. Although this was new, it would be practiced and improved throughout the ages. One change that occurred in the scholarship of history was cataloging. The reason for this change is because documentary history had never been collected and codified. An example of this would be Herodotus’ Histories in which he collects secondary and oral sources along with knowledge derived from sensory experiences of major historical events to show not just what happened but an explanation of why. However, there were chronological limits of this period, so this became a continuity in history. This was improved upon in the Renaissance with the “development” of humanistic and secular methodology, and again in the Enlightenment era’s “father of empiricism,” Francis Bacon, who used two innovative approaches to sources and inquiry using empiricism (knowledge derived from sensory experience) and secular frameworks (separation of church)” (Macha). And again, in the Romantic era and with Critical historicism, where the historian's purpose was to artistically develop a coherent narrative combined with “essentially” the objective truth. All built upon Herodotus’ framework of building laying a more scientific society. 

	During the time period 1530–1800 AD, natural philosophy grew, and began to challenge traditional and religious authority causing many things to change in history because it forever altered the formal relationship of governing and church. One change that occurred in historical scholarship was the separation of church and state. Beginning in 354 AD, St. Augustine, in the late antiquity, began discussing concern of the relationship between church and state. This grew immediately into a continuity in history, seeing its re-appearance repeatedly. In 1530 King Henry VIII separated permanently from the church, Francis Bacon in 1516-1626 AD separated church and state in historical methodology, John Locke in 1632-1704 would inspire the 1800’s American Bill of Rights, and in 1721 Montesquieu a French philosophes wrote about it in the form of toleration and limits. So, although it was a discontinuity in history to begin with it quickly became a widely built upon philosophy and constant component in historical writing. 

During the time period 1350 to 1620 AD, the European Renaissance historical thinkers focus on cultural mechanisms to influence society remained constant in historiography, while there were significant changes in approaches over time due to interactions with social structures, exploration, and global dominance. One continuity that has occurred in this historiography is humanistic frameworks. The reason for this continuity is because science, technology, and philosophies change over, what one generation cares about can be redefined or replaced to fit the context and zeitgeist of that era. An example of this would be the Enlightenment that emerged from Renaissance humanism, was preceded by Francis Bacon and the Scientific Revolution. We see it repeat through history. 

In conclusion, there really has not been anything that is completely new, just recycling the same work using new scientific technological advancements overtime which inadvertently creates issues in society that require a “new” socio-political philosophy. Humans have always railed against authority and religion and wealth gaps in the context of their time. All these claimed changes are just reimagining's of a primitive foundation that was laid many years ago. Historical relevance goes in and out of fashion. What is new and distinct about history? Nothing, however, each society puts historical relevance into their own context and collectively decides what is new to fain the fantasy of progression to continue the status quo. Even though linear time during late antiquity was a discontinuity in history, it too became a continuity in history as a philosophical debate whether we are going in circle doomed to repeat ourselves, on a straight trajectory towards progression, or a helix where we are moving forward but still repeating similar behaviors that have been documented in the past. This is a new spin on an old idea. So, have things really changed? Each era claims to have professionalized history, added arts and sciences, however, history began scholastically as rhetorical literary art and poetry. Finding a balance between art and science has resurfaced again throughout the ages, it is not new. Alterations to the philosophies of history are consistent and changing. What is always the same is the human need to find new ways to define progress and find a pattern in history. Heraclitus said “the only constant in life is change” because without growth there is no progress but what is growth based on? Whatever each society dictates it to be. 

 