	
	We have studied many different time periods and writers in class, and they all had a different topics and events that they wrote on, although they did share many of the same reasons. There have been lots of different reasons for writing history, but I think the most common reason throughout time is to build up the writers culture or nation. Roman writers did it when trying to explain why they were able to conquer so many other cultures, and much later Enlightenment writers wrote their history similarly when attempting to prove why western europe was the height of culture and progress throughout the world. 
	
	Another common reason for studying and writing history that we’ve seen is to learn from past peoples successes and mistakes. Machiavelli uses many examples in The Prince about what will or won’t work, based on historical actions of people. This is a form of cyclical history, in which events end up repeating themselves over and over throughout time. This way of viewing history persisted for a long time, as people viewed the rise and fall of different empires all as a part of this cycle. This is in contrast to later views of history which were viewed as linear, and the past was a way for the modern people to learn how to progress forward.

	One thing that we have discussed in class has been the change in the importance of religion in history and history writing in general, and the sway that the Church has over the people and history. Many Enlightenment writers especially started to break away from the authority of the Church and their government, which led to different ideas and thoughts, as well as a willingness to go against previously held ideas.

	Nationalism also became a thing during this time, as countries began to have complete histories that separated them from others. There also developed many different ways of presenting historical writing. Some used the Critical way of writing history, where they only presented proven historical facts and information. Others chose the Romantic way of writing history, in which they tried to put the reader into the shoes of the people they were writing about, and develop a narrative around these events. While neither form was perfect, they both brought importance contributions to history writing, namely that you must only use proven fact, but it is also necessary to construct a narrative around the facts themselves, or them may seem disjointed and not connected at all. 
	
	I think one of the most important developments of historiography academic development as a whole was the increase of who was involved in it. Not only is it normally the victors who write history, it is also normally the rich and literate who are able to do so. Later writers of history did not necessarily come from the church or nobility, and had different ideas and topics than previous writers writing about wars or nations. They also used different methods to research and compose their writings, such as sourcing their material from primary sources. While their writing was still far from bias, I think it was still an important development for how modern writers go about researching and writing, as well as of course training historians in formal settings. I am excited to see more modern history writers, and how they write and compare themselves to past writers, since they also have those sources and information. 

Questions
How does our view of history change our views about our world? (Ex. Cyclical vs. linear history)
Is it possible to view our own history writing without bias and study modern historiography? 
