We’ve discussed in past weeks the difference between studying the past versus studying history, and I think it's interesting to note from this chapter that history is being seen by some as being about the past and that historians are just as much stuck in the past as the histories they study. 
This chapter seems to discuss again, as mentioned in previous discussions, the historian's purpose and what the point isto of studying history. I like when the author Fulbrook mentions, “By and large, probably a majority of historians persuade themselves that Postmodernists positions, in particular, are rather extreme and need to be taken seriously, although views vary as to whether there is a real threat or not.
Lawrence Stone’s beleaguered Perceptions of a ‘crisis of self-confidence’ among practicing historians, and his fear that history might become ‘an endangered species' are disputed by postmodernist Patrick Joyce who suggests that, at least in Britain, ‘rank indifference rather than outright hostility’ is ‘the dominant response’” (Fulbrook. Pg.6).
She makes it sound as if historians are at odds over what the purpose of studying history is and that not many want to look at the past and say it's a part of the history discourse, and that the art of studying history is a dying practice.
I like this author's approach to the purpose of history as saying it's like putting together a jigsaw puzzle, each piece is a part of the bigger picture. 
One's own human quality of curiosity is what makes the little picture of why study history come together to form a bigger picture of why history is important as a whole. 
She says, “The past can, it is freely  admitted, never be ‘really known’: what we know of it is a reconstruction based on the traces, on evidence which has survived to the present.
And that evidence is not imaginary, not merely a fragment of a discourse: it is real. We have a sense of a past that really happened, and we have a simple desire to know more about it; so we look for appropriate traces to piece together a fuller picture, a more rounded story” (pg.24-25).
To make this point stronger Fulbrook states, “New evidence will shed new light, and better, ‘revisionist’ accounts can be developed. History is thus cumulative: We get to know more and more about the past. The professional tasks for this group is in one sentence simple: we get into the archives and libraries, and get on with the job.
In another sense, however, this group recognizes that historical research requires considerable skills, which can be taught and learned, as well as acquired with experience; history is this a professional discipline which requires appropriate training and skill and methods. And it is also a discipline which requires imagination, creativity, engagement” (Fulbrook. Pg. 24). 
As much knowledge about how to study the histories of the world and its never ending branches of curiosity is important as a historian, having the creativity and imagination to think not only creatively, but also like an artist, like discussed in past classes, can lead to discovering the same detail, but from a different perspective.
To me, when I think of plagiarism, I think of taking credit for someone else's words and actions, but I never thought of there being multiple definitions, with different subcategories.
Fulbrook explains these different branches of plagiarism in a new way that has me thinking critically of them and not in a “scratching the surface” kind of way. 
She says, “The general background plagiarism, or framework of enquiry, will determine which set of historical actors (individuals,classes, groups) are those set to play upon the stage; and what kinds of explanation will satisfy a particular sort of curiosity.” (pg.36 ) 
Something that stood out to me in particular about these different subcategories of plagiarism is the way she describes what perspectival plagiarism was, and how historians can look at it, opposed to other scholars. She explains, “What I call ‘perspectival plagiarism' which can be characterized as, not so much ‘new approaches to old questions’ (as they often claim) but rather ‘old approaches to new questions’. 
These are plagiarism which, on closer inspection may be distinguished from one another by virtue of the fact that they seek to illuminate different ‘segments of reality’ or, more simply, different subjects of inquiry.” (Pg. 37) She also says, “Plagiarism proper are based, ultimately, on a set of very strongly held metatheoretical premises akin to a belief system; one either holds these truths to be self-evident (to borrow the immortal words of the American constitutionalist) or one does not” (Pg.41).
Then to sum it up in so many words, she says, “And all plagiarism tends to develop as discrete ‘schools’, ‘language communities’ of scholars with specific institutional bases and communication networks; the schools may develop a political dynamic of competition which cross-cuts other bases of distinction between plagiarism” (Pg. 50). 
I feel as if she is explaining the roles of plagiarism in society and what it means to historians, in a way that comes from speaking to historians as how they perceive it, but also how society as a whole sees it, by explaining the ways in which schools, and higher institutions of education are on different levels of looking at how to study history.
