Fulbrook reiterates her purposes for writing Historical Theory throughout the Introduction (and Preface).  She basically states that she was unsatisfied with how the many other contemporary historians she specifically names concluded their various historiographical publications.  She wanted to further develop the idea of analyzing the wider framework of various historical interpretations, and not just focus in on criticizing the individual components of those constructions.  

Very importantly, and especially as it relates to many of our own class readings and discussions about postmodernist approaches, Fulbrook states that *historians are held to a higher standard of seeking a degree of truth about what they study and profess to understand.*  This is what separates historians from “myth-mongers, propagandists, [and] pleaders for self-interests” (p. 7).

Fulbrook makes meaningful points by mentioning that history is inevitably a part of the present.  Therefore, it is unlikely that most historians do not inexorably have a modern interpretation of past events.  She also debunks the idea that all various interpretations of historical theory are acceptable and should **not** be viewed as simply some sort of academic melting pot which is an approved and diverse approach.

The **empiricist** approach to history subscribes to the idea that the past can never truly be implicitly known, but must be “reconstructed” on the basis of real evidence.  Real evidence means that archival records must be approached critically, and sources must be analyzed in order create a “reconstruction” that is as closely related to the events noted within the sources as possible.  This method presupposes that historians are trained in the scientific tenets of research and critical analysis of sources and must have the advanced knowledge of archival theory and practices as well.

  But (*and there always is one*), this is what, according to Fulbrook, postmodernist thought challenges in terms of rendering history as a narrative and therefore categorizing such methods as literature.  Yet, postmodernist historians have failed to write or “do” history in any other manner.  This was also discussed in class in terms of how to render historical events and facts without weaving them into some type of narrative, otherwise the end result would be something akin to annals, or dry sets of unconnected dates and facts.

**Paradigms** in historical thought are the structures which theory is applied under, essentially a belief system that governs and dictates the way the world functions.  In turn, historians will share in the collective ideals of a particular paradigm (whether that is motivated by political, social, mainstream, or subaltern, etc.… narratives) to convey their own theories about a particular history that fits within that specific category.

*Implicit paradigms* are those that are not easily labeled, and in fact, may not be obvious.  Why?  Fulbrook states that all historians are operating with some sort of paradigm, whether they acknowledge it or not.  The sheer fact in determining topics to study, what information to use or not, and how to render those findings entail the notion that there is some theory or set of beliefs involved in that very process.  

*Perspectival paradigms* are the various ways in which a subject can be analyzed, studied and written about.  This can include addressing old topics that have been thoroughly understood in a completely different manner, or can go even further by branching out from the mainstream topics into subtopics that further splinter historical research.

*Paradigms proper* are adhering to strict belief systems, and may be influenced by political, cultural, or linguistic identities within those systems.  Fulbrook cites examples of Marixism-Leninism, structuralism, and Freudian psychoanalysis as paradigms proper, as they each illustrate a particular set of beliefs they are operating within.  

*Pidgin* or *magpie paradigms* are those who borrow from other paradigms, but are not truly theoretical systems in themselves.  Rather, they cherry-pick certain ideals to create what seems to be a theoretical practice, when it is really an odd amalgamation. 

Understanding how paradigms shape historical practice and how they contribute to the lack of consensus among historians is why Fulbrook needs to define them in the book.  *The book’s basic aim is to highlight these sources of division and to offer a different path forward that creates more theoretical cohesion, or at least allows room for all narratives or theories to work in tandem rather than in opposition of one another.*
