# Historical Theory I #

Well, Mary Fulbrook may have just become one of my *favorite* historical authors I've had a privilege of reading. Thank you for introducing this text to me, it’ll very quickly become a bookshelf favorite.

In the first chapter, Fulbrook brought up a lot of the topics we've been talking about in class which was a nice refresher from fall break. These topics include postmodernism and how it has thrown a wrench into the study of history as we know it; historians cannot (and have never really) agreed with which lens to look upon history because there is no true wrong or right way to look at history. Fulbrook also brought up *language* and how it’s relation with history has changed how we view history or have come to understand it. This is something that interested me a couple of weeks ago (I believe during the Romantic week) how language can be used to frame history, so I am excited for the relationship between history and language to be discussed further in the book, because it is an interesting theoretical approach. 

Finally, in this first chapter, Fulbrook is discussing the relationship between *theory* and *history* which, as she put so wonderfully, “historical writing is ‘inevitably’ theoretical.” History has a knack of being a story of assumptions, but when you introduce the possibility of history as viewed from theoretical points, it changes how a historian practices their art. I’ve always believed that history is like science or math and deserves that same respect and practice. I'm glad I'm on the same page as Mary Fulbrook here, it makes me excited as a historian.

In chapter 2, Fulbrook brings up that as we begin to look at the nature of historical knowledge, it is important to note the “scientization” of history, which I thought was wonderful and aligned with my beliefs on history. Fulbrook implies that an **empiricist** approach of history is one where the past can never truly be *known* as Ranke is most quoted for describing history as being “really known.” But that is impossible, as we’ve discussed in class before; we cannot, even with the texts upon texts, commenting on texts upon texts, we cannot really or actually know what happened, but rather “reconstruct” what we know based on real evidence. This is a practice we’ve discussed in great length in class, history as a kind of scientific practice, not as a take at face value. 

Fulbrook also explains that postmodernism challenges whether there is a “possibility of doing history at all” in that can objectivity be something a historian truly achieves when looking at history. This objectivity cannot necessarily happen, as Fulbrook mentions, because there is “different notions of knowledge and modes of being in the world,” or “totalizing” knowledge. We’ve also discussed this a bit in class; how do we approach history when there is so much of it? Where do we start? How do we start? How do we even approach history with all these questions, all this knowledge, all these different voices in the same room begging to be heard? It’s easy to fall into that postmodern pit of, “Well, what’s the point? We won’t be able to understand it all really,” and that can be… bleak. But that is why historians from every angle have come out to contest that very challenge by either outright calling it too extreme or pointing out that there is a connection between what is known as *truth* and reality*. And ultimately this is what we **need** to believe because it’s true; we cannot really know what happened, but we can take what we know, what we have, and analyze, deconstruct, form connections between what we know as “truth” and what is reality and come to a better understanding of the past.

Finally, in the third chapter we come to Fulbrook’s approach to historical paradigms and theoretical traditions. To historians, a paradigm is a “worldview entailed a particular set of assumptions about the nature of the world, a corresponding set of analytical concepts for describing the nature of the world, and a number of hypotheses purporting to explain how the world worked.” I’ve been meaning to bring up *assumptions* and the number of times that Fulbrook has brought up the word in the first three chapters (especially in chapter 1 because it is interesting… is history, even the most factual and professional records of history, not just assumptions made? Maybe that is getting too negative, or even slipping into the postmodern challenge discussed earlier, but it’s just interesting to me that *assumption* shows up again, this time as *paradigms* are discussed. 

**Implicit paradigms** are the “underlie all of historical writing” in that it is in the “categorization of ‘facts’” or the “historical picture as a whole.” It is historical explanation and gives into narratives and we’ve seen this paradigm shift into political history since it is so direct, and the narrative can be willed into any political framework.

**Perspectival paradigms** are “theoretical approaches” to history where there is more of a scientific way of approaching history and this has a way of challenging history and sometimes displacing it. I liken perspectival paradigms to our discussions on the importance of small histories to understand the bigger histories. 

**Paradigms proper** tend to obey strict belief systems (such as Marxism, structuralism, etc.) and can adopt characteristics of that system. Fulbrook gives Marxism as an example of this paradigm where so many versions of Marxism take place, but truly there has been an entire worldview built on the system of Marxism that varies in extremism.

**Pidgin paradigms** I likened to being the “piggy backers” (awful word combination, I’m so sorry) of other paradigms in that it borrows concepts from other theoreticians and tends to… give “new” ideas that are “eclectic” in fashion. Therefore, they are considered “*magpie theories*” that cannot themselves be actual theories because they're a sort of Frankenstein theory. One of my fellow peers put it so wonderfully, that is cherry-picking from other theories to become its own.

Fulbrook finds these paradigms important because they are “paths to the past.” She poses the question regarding the approach to paradigms; “On what different, metatheoretical, *assumptions* are particular approaches based?” There’s that wonderful little word again, but I’ll digress… Paradigms are going to be the frameworks that historians will find themselves walking into, and they should be questioned as to how they have gotten us to understand history as a whole, or even in small quantities.
