## *Historical Theory* I reflection

This reading was helpful in recapping what postmodernism is in the context of understanding and writing history. A couple of things we have seen before which we have covered in class is the idea of the inaccessibility of empirical truth in history, the postmodern attempts to deconstruct the idea of "historical progress", and the rejection of both conscious and unconscious "ideological history" by postmodernists. Additionally it cleared up in my mind the relationship postmodernism has to the accessibility of objectivity in history. In sum, this relationship basically entails the Rankean historian to think of history as a collection of facts needing to be uncovered for what they actually were while the postmodernist rejects this, claiming that objective truth is actually uncoverable as a result the diversity in our approaches to doing so. One new thing that this section brings forward is that it postulates an understanding of the nature of history in a manner which rejects elements of both postmodernism and empiricism.

Empirical history, in essence is doing history as Ranke would have: uncovering facts about the past via credible sources which functionally (and in the minds of empiricist historians, actually as well) represent objectivity. The postmodernist challenge is to establish the idea that objectivity is really inaccessible as a result of how we approach sources for a variety of reasons, as well as to deconstruct or critique what logically follows from an empiricist position. Historians on either side of the isle have fail to reconcile these differences on one hand by rejecting postmodernism outright as it is seen as too theoretical and/or "extreme/radical" and therefore illegitimate, and on the other hand by postmodernists potentially flirting with the rejection of objectivity at all, and/or possibly the outright reality of the past.

A paradigm, to historians, is a woldview by which people make assumptions about the nature of history, conceptual understandings of the nature of history, and attempt to understand why history is as it is in their minds. Implicit paradigms see no value in the theoretical framework of how history and its understandin g are done and care only care about what they see as the gathering of facts about the past. In doing this they lead historians to ignore, overlook or outright forget the theoretical framework which is guiding this attitude.Perspectival paradigms are those which explicitly contain questions which guide the process of studying, understanding, and/or writing of history. These questions define the perspective from which the historian's paradigm operates. Paradigms proper are those which are much more ideological, based on so-called "self-evident" assumptions, containg within them the "connotations" about identity of various traditions, and the theoritcal understandings and "investigations" which follow. Finally, Pidgin paradigms are those which are conscious of the theoretical frameworks by which history is done, and falsely or otherwise incompletely make a claim to these frameworks. These paradigms are so important for Fullbrook, because they shape our understandings of the past, barring some aspects of it from us, while granting us access to others, while also granting us insight into the similarities and differences which fuel historiographical debate.