It’s clear that there is no ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach to incorporating postmodernist thought into the professional discipline of history. Far from being a statement of the fundamental unknowability of the past and an establishment of the relativist nature of history, it seems more like a challenge to traditional empiricist understandings of the discipline, seeking not to replace but to augment this tradition. In other words, historical postmodernism does not mean to say “all histories are equally valid,” but rather “all histories are intrinsically constructed and inseparable from the social, political, economic, and institutional conditions of the historian creating them.” Not all histories are created equally in that they’re all equally valid or invalid, just that they are dependent on the historical paradigm that they are created within. In this way, conceptions of ‘doing history’ as either completely divorced from postmodernism (the purist empiricist approach) or completely relativist are too simplistic to actually be useful. The empiricist ‘doing history’ without reference to theory or the paradigm and episteme he or she inhabits is missing a key part of what is helping to create that history.

Fulbrook essentially echoes this synthesis of the postmodernist with the empiricist by arguing against the existence of the historical metanarrative and arguing for that of the infinite number of partial narratives, but also discarding a universal relativist understanding and recognizing the utility of establishing ‘mutually agreed criteria for disconfirming particular partial accounts.’

I think the most prescient idea of these three chapters is that a historian must recognize the paradigms they inhabit in order to actually do ‘good,’ ‘useful’ history. And it is not only one paradigm that any particular historian inhabits. Fulbrook mentions four types of paradigm: the implicit, the perspectival, the proper, and the ‘pidgin.’ 

The implicit paradigm is that which the historian inhabits basically unconsciously. It is manifested within what the historian deems appropriate for detailing historical causation: whether that be individual actors (the dramatis personae), the battles, the events, the institutions, the classes or groups of the narrative. This paradigm is probably the most difficult to denote explicitly.

The perspectival paradigm is that chosen by the historian as the perspective from which history will be ‘done.’ It is what the historian chooses to focus their energies on: the Nation, high politics, marginalized groups, social classes. For example, the French Annales school of history focused on the perspective of the longue duree, the Bielefeld School on social history.

‘Proper’ paradigms are the explicit theoretical lenses by which historical analysis takes place. The large body of work that is Marxism, psychoanalysis, and structuralism are the proper paradigms explicitly listed by Fulbrook. These form the backbone of the assumptions made by historians concerning what is important to look at, which sources should be privileged over others, what parties, political viewpoints and groups should be focused on.

Finally, the eclectic ‘pidgin’ paradigm is that which is cobbled-together from the approaches of disparate historians in order to bring a “new approach” to the subject matter at hand, often plucking theoretical modes out of the theories inhabited by them in such a way as to divorce the concept from its theoretical context. Sometimes this application of individual modes of analysis is useful, sometimes the disregarding of the theoretical framework leads to problems.
