 # Fulbrook
In Historical Theory by Fulbrook, we have recapped on postmodernism's development in approaches to history, the objective and methodology changes and the move away from traditional view and the ideology of what the ‘truth’ is historically. Fulbrook seeks to differentiate history from fiction or propaganda, but to be cautious of naiveté of the facts that empiricist tend to overlook.  Fulbrook believes that there is a fundamental misunderstanding about the nature of historical inquiry. She questions whether we can decide between competing histories not based on moral, political, or personal preferences/bias. Fulbrook aims not to examine the relationship between history and theory but concerns herself with the *“intrinsically theoretical nature of historical investigation and representation and how historians face key theoretical questions which facts alone are not enough"* (p. 4). What is new from what we have covered so far is that Mary Fulbrook is the challenging key theoretical questions and historical investigation methods to provide restraints and weaknesses from to over reliance on facts alone and tries to find strategies to bridge the gap between the past and interpretations from the present.

Empirical approach to history is the principle developed and applied mutual agreed criteria for disconfirming accounts and using the interpreted empirical evidence of a variety of sorts. The emphasis is on the framework of facts and evidence, not theoretical. *"Empiricists seek archives and try to find out what happened or how it was”* (4). *"Empiricists tend to focus on evidence of the past reality, driven by a degree of optimism about their capacity to evaluate and make good use of that evidence, postmodernist tend to focus on rather on issues relating to the lability and unrootedness of current representations of that past”* (6). 

The postmodernist challenge lies within *"the multiplicity of theoretical approaches to historical investigation, with competing accounts of the same phenomena, and historical investigation is the pursuit of the truth about the past and yet competing paradigms seem to be closely related to particular positions on the political spectrum”* (5). Postmodernists have lots of ways to “emplot individual facts into narratives to reconstruct the past” (5). Postmodernists fundamentally challenge the notion of truth, asserting it is situated truth for those who hold positions of power, linking power and knowledge. Most focus on political situations of discourse. The postmodernist is challenged by attention to the philosophical and conflicting and multiplicity of accounts on the same subject.  

Postmodernists fail to reconcile these proponents because *“they either take for granted, or bracket out, the questions raised by the sheer diversity of approaches and philosophical doubts about the nature of history”* (27). They assume that attention is paid to focus on analysis of substantive problems with respect to the past. They fail because *“historical accounts are not simply narratives which are more or less arbitrarily imposed on select traces of the past and represented and designed to achieve some sort of reality effect”* (30). 

*“They fail because there are theoretical and conceptual choices which filter what historians work on within different traditions of inquiry, which is not a simple matter of the other ways in which historical consciousness and knowledge is informed not only by the traces of the past but also by the concerns of the present”* (30). 

Fulbrook differentiates between implicit, perspectival paradigms, which encompass common underlying assumptions. Central challenges of historical investigation and representation are finding a way to cope with both relationships of past and present and gaining coherent insights into sources through conceptual and methodological frameworks. 

A paradigm, as far as historians are concerned, is *“the framework of inquiry that will determine which set of historical actors are those set to play upon the stage, and what kind of explanation will satisfy a particular sort of curiosity”* (36). Paradigms are theoretical structures to investigate and interpret the past. *“These paradigms, which on closer inspection, may be distinguished from one another by virtue of fact, they seek to illuminate different ‘segments of reality or more simply, different subjects of inquiry”* (37). These conceptualizations are inevitably tied to frameworks of preconceived knowledge, assumptions and questions. 

Implicit paradigms, although A-theoretical, *“includes the constitution and categorization of facts, weighing of evidence to each element”*, metanarratives of interpretations of the past (35). Implicit paradigms are the significant cause of all historical writing because *“even when they think they are operating outside of theory”* they are (35). *“Certain perspectives tend to be linked with certain political standpoints in the present” and this dictates the narrative of theory"* (37). 

Perspectival paradigms are a theoretical approach brings about new “isms” and *“often using old approaches to new questions”* (37). Perspective paradigms are historical narratives of high politics and diplomacy, *"the social and cultural histories which brings forwards ‘new perspectives that emerge alongside the traditional approaches”* (38). They explore and illustrate inadequately *“explored perspectives or segment of reality”* (39). *"Perspective paradigms enhance multi-faceted and more complete knowledge of the past”* (39). New theoretical approaches, different approaches and perspectives to the same topic. As ’perspectival paradigms 'can neither be ignored nor dissolved. 

Proper paradigms differ on three levels: *“internal, contextual, and metatheoretical”* (41). Each operating at specific levels. *“Level C is based on strong held metatheoretical premises akin to the belief system, truths that are self-evident, Level B is based on has particular connotations in terms of political and cultural sympathies and identities, usually in particular language communities, and Level A, the underlying assumptions follow a set of explicit theoretical propositions and concepts and related applications and investigations”* (41). These are metathetical assumptions that simply tenant faith, which can be accepted or denied. 

Pidgin paradigms *“claim to use theory but often does not constitute a coherent theoretical approach”* (47). Pidgin paradigms often borrow from other theoretical approaches to pose new contextualization on constraints, transposing it into a hybrid. It's what is fashionable at that time. 

Paradigms are important to Fulbrook because *"historical accounts, interpretations and explanations are verifiable or refutable only within paradigms”* (p. 68). The findings of historical investigations are largely dependent on the questions raised by historians. Paradigms can explain compatible and incompatible issues within the historical theory frameworks.  

 

 