# Enlightenment History
## _exploring 18th Century Historiography and its impact on today's story of History_ 


The overall contribution of Enlightenment thought on Historiography changed the direction history gathering was traveling and allowed a new story to be told. When we as a cultur started to consider the ways in how we think, we also begun to consider the humanistic contribution to the building of society. Looking beyond war conquest started a new focus on the true building blocks of society, people. This shift in thinking moved the documentation of history from the big story to the details. Within the details is where history has lived since.
Technical advances in the gathering, qualifying, and organizing of historical sources was redefined at this time and the study of History moved to a more scientific approach. This new approach to history humanizes history. Moving away from philosophy to science when recording and understanding history places the causation of history in the hands of those actively creating history. Once again, people. 
Perspective changed with the new attention to gathering source information. With humanity providing most of historical information, the focus of the story can change. In Germany, the attention to identifying quality source material has led the way in the development of our historical process today. 
Filling in the blank spaces of history is always challenging and can seem to be riddled with possible mistakes in gaining a true understanding of what happened in a given account. Understanding of all sides and emotions could be lost with this type of historiography such as William Roberston was promoting. However, even if this is dangerous to the truth it remains a part of the artful telling of stories today. 
Common among the historians from the Ka-May Cheng reading is a generalized shift away from philosophical reason to a human caused history. Also continued is a focus on humanity and a shift away from wat history. Trying to understand the more complex nature of the world through its people and their reasoning is at the heart of the transformative enligtenment years.
