Francisco Raby-Mondragon
History 491
8-13-21




In Chapter 2 from our reading by Eileen Ka-May Chang, it is noted that historians, Voltaire, William Robertson, Edward Gibbon, and Mercy Otis Warren, all approached differently their documentation of how diversity and commonalities of Enlightenment applied to history. The philosophical history during this time was viewed  by these historians in different ways, thus presenting different perspectives. I appreciate  how the author  also presents the comparisons and  differences of “The Enlightenment”.  While some people of this time period lacked accountability and courage during this time, a nice touch that Ka-May Chang describes in her writings, demonstrates  how the morals of the people affected their beliefs and how they lived.
 Also, Enlightenment thinkers recognized the limits to reason and the many other forces that worked against the operation of reason in human behavior and reason. Most historians  believed it was necessary to achieve progress no matter what happened in their communities.The Enlightenment rejected the traditional authority and faith at the time. “Hence many of the leading Enlightenment philosophes – including Voltaire, David Hume, and Diderot, to name just a few – produced works of history, or wrote broadly about their theories of history in their philosophical works, as in the case of Kant and Condorcet.”(chen , 31)”.
Also Ka-May Chang states in this chapter how the Enlightenment thinkers were often criticized for being anti-historical in their approach to the past. “Enlightenment historians likewise varied over the relationship between philosophical history and the antiquarian tradition of scholarship that they inherited from the Renaissance”.  The author presents the comparison between historians and antiquarians, highlighting their similarities, however  she also notes some clear differences. I like how the author presents how historians had experience in politics, while researching manuscripts or archaeological sources. Religions of the era; Christianity, Judisism and Muslim,were paramount in  the formation of the foundation of belief systems that impacted how history was recorded.
I appreciate how Ka-Ma Chang gives tribute in her writing, the great importance of Enlightenment thinkers' contribution to history. These individuals played an important  role in putting forth the ideas of philosophical history. Some historians “went even further in departing from the traditional boundaries of history by making the history of social and cultural life”. During this time of growth, the author states that this time was very pivotal because it “established a model of philosophical history that would have an important influence on other Enlightenment historians”.  I can see how this was very important to those who studied philosophy of the time, and how this evolved and impacted how we study philosophy today.
The author also presents in her writing that possibly other historians would have collaborated in their thoughts and essays and might  have exchanged similar views that impacted the growth and change of views and thoughts about the politics, religion, moral beliefs and the ways of living of the times. Also, she highlights  that the fall of Rome was very important to historians because it was a time of growth and significant change, a time of awareness and open thinking that gave new opportunities for thought. Not all Enlightenment history came from the European nations, but also from the Americas, including the thoughts and views from the Naive Americans. This spread of Enlightenment thinking was diverse and profound in how it reached  across continents and people of various cultures and backgrounds.

It was through time, from discussions, debates, essays, speeches, public forums, and ways of thinking and living, including everyday customs and formation of governments and politics that Enlightenment thinking was melded into how we documented history and philosophy. 
   
