What I found significant about Enlightenment thinking was how rationality and critical thought was increasingly central. Mancha describes how Enlightenment thinkers approached the writing of history from an increasingly secular framework, enabled by the diminished influence of religious fanaticism in society at large. It seemed to me that it was this reduction in religion’s control over thought is what allowed for the Enlightenment’s questioning and rejection of tradition. Some Enlightenment thinkers, like Voltaire and Gibbon, outright challenged and rejected Christianity, while others like Robertson embraced it, but all of them seemed to approach their work with far less scrutiny from religious authorities. I hadn’t entirely realized how it was this broad control over people’s approach to thought and conception of progress that seems to have been the main factor in the absence of widespread innovation and change in these areas in medieval times. 

As religious control waned in the Renaissance and continued to decline during the Enlightenment, people began to gather socially more. This ability to exchange ideas outside of the religion appears to be central in how the approach to history evolved from a mostly artistic endeavor to a more scientific one. Having to explain and probably defend one’s ideas necessitated an approach that focuses more on citing and evaluating sources. This approach forced people to begin to view historical events as the result of human actions rather than God’s will. This forced historians to focus on human actions and to attempt to assess their cultural significance, causing history to become more of a study of the principles that govern human behavior, which I think was the most significant idea in this week’s readings. This same idea is what allowed historians like Robertson to begin exploring importance of economic activity on history. 

All of these things helped in changing how people’s conception of progress evolved in the Enlightenment. As this change took hold, traditional notions on the superiority of antiquity faded and the idea that humanity could be improved through rational change. This idea reminded me of Machiavelli’s use of lessons learned from historical events in deciding the best course of action in the present. 

Was it the Church’s broad control over conceptions on progress that stifled innovation in the writing of history during medieval times?
