Enlightenment history could be described as a continuation of development in terms of reasoning and academics. By that I mean to say that humanity took a large step in terms of historiography when it moved from a circular history to a linear one; and much in a parallel it developed further with the Enlightenment. During this time much more historical objectivity appeared. This was likely due to the realization that politics were central to history. This seems like an obvious statement to us, given that political factors guide empires and nations; however, when thinking on a deeper level about our own biases we realize that we view history through different lenses for different geographical areas, religions, or groups. This was the realization that was defined the Enlightenment. I personally find this to be one of the most important periods of history because it served as a refinement of past ideals as well as an expansion of their principles. For example, we get many of the ideals that the United States would later be founded on during this time. Firstly, with ancient Greek ideas of Democracy and Roman Republics refined by minds like John Locke, and Voltaire. Furthermore, with the right to challenge authority given by Martin Luther in his 95-thesis acting as a steppingstone, society know applied these ideas to government and other institutions. From here we get the classic “Life, Liberty, and Property” guaranteed by the government as well as many other rights. Clearly the Enlightenment acted not only as a compilation and refinement of ideas, but it also serves as a foundation for the modern world. 

 

In terms of application, the Englightment ideas have been applied far and wide. In the most obvious case, the Englightment made us realizes the various biases that might affect our view of history, be they political, religious, social, or something else entirely. It would be this concept that could lead to things like the civil rights and feminist movements as people broke from previous social and political views and began seeing the world through a more objective lens. 

 

Differences in the histories described in the chapter are mainly that the Enlightenment era seemed to be characterized by an expansion of reason as well as far more objective views of history. This was succeeded by an oddly almost opposite history viewed through the lens of a pro-nationalist histories. This came in the form of romantic histories of events like the French and American Revolutions. It is difficult to point at one even and not see it in a positive light associated with nationalism and less objective history. Pride in our past and where our nations came from will always lead to a lack of objectivity. 

1) To what degree do Enlightenment ideas affect our thinking? 

2) How has a “Euro-Centric Nationalism” affected history? 
  