Reading Reflection 4 Enlightenment and Philosophical History 

•	What was new about Enlightenment thinking in general?
What was new about enlightenment thinking in general was the emphasis on reason and how it was important to enlightenment thinkers because they believed with reason progress could be attained. The emphasis on reason seems to coincide with the Scientific Revolution and how the natural world works. “Believing that human society was governed, like the natural world, by universal laws, Enlightenment thinkers assumed that it was possible for human beings to understand the workings of those laws through the exercise or their reason, and by using that understanding to improve society,” (Cheng,31) The emphasis on progress through reason was a big part of Enlightenment thinking. We also see how the idea of secularized ideas are coming to the forefront in the enlightenment but as we see in the chapter some enlightenment thinkers like William Robertson who was a minister in the Church of Scotland was also a leader in the Scottish enlightenment. 
•	In broad terms, how did Enlightenment thinking get applied to History? 
For Enlightenment thinkers they were viewing History through a philosophical lense where History is going to be used to serve a purpose in society. “Enlightenment historians also revealed their assumptions of a universal human nature and their desire to use the past for the sake of the present in their conception of philosophical history, by which they meant a history that provided a systematic inquiry into the general laws and principals that governed human nature.” (Cheng,33) History for them was another way to try to explain human progress by combining the two disciplines of History and Philosophy to try to better explain the historical narrative. 
•	What were the commonalities and differences between the approaches to History described in the chapter? 
I think something that feels similar is that the Enlightenment thinkers were more than willing to question authority with regards to church teachings and to imply reason as a major source of progress at the time. Some differences that were had between some of the approaches to History have to do with the attitude of religion and if religion had a place in the world of the philosophes. Or whether religion could be a positive or negative moving forward in society. 
Informed Question/s 
If Robertson was alive today and took a course on the Mexica/Aztecs  at UNM by Professor Gauderman where he would see the Aztec’s had a commercial society where trade was essential to the society and the City of Tenochtitlan was a cosmopolitan monolith and larger than the European cities of London, Paris and Rome and that the Spaniards were able to conquer through means that weren’t that apparent like spread of disease and other rival City states aligning with the Spaniards to topple the Mexica people, would he come to the conclusion that his interpretation of  stadial theory may have been wrong in the case of Spaniards and Indigenous people? Or that stadial theory may need to be revised all together? 
