# Enlightenment History #

Last week we made it *pretty* clear that we disagreed with historians calling the Medieval Ages the “Dark Ages,” and Early Modern historiography had moved away from history as a tool for religious purposes, and more onto concrete and rational *humanistic* uses. Now, this week we have another major breakthrough where Enlightenment thinking and historiography has given way to “modernity” where there is further rejection of tradition, emphasis on equality, and major evolution in technology, science, and society. Not to mention, history has become a **profession** with requirements to validate and authenticate works/writings, instead of history as a hobby or supplement to other professions.

We’re seeing the Renaissance and Protestant Reformation as the “catalysts” for Enlightenment thinking to take hold and give way for writers/philosophers/historians like Voltaire (much like Early Modern historiography’s Machiavelli), Immanuel Kant, and Diderot. Cheng defined Enlightenment as “the intellectual transformations of the 18th century” which includes empiricism and individualism, which is how the Scientific Revolution can take hold; you have Enlightenment thinkers applying their understanding of the natural world to human society in a way that Renaissance thinkers did not or were not able to.

What was different about Enlightenment thinking was the *purpose* of the historian; it was clear that the “purpose of Enlightenment philosophical history was to explain and systematize.” Before Enlightenment, historians/philosophers were only meant to record or apply their knowledge to policy and action (thus being a supplement to other professions like law and medicine), and so we’re having a distinct change from history being used to supplement certain jobs to “distinguishing features of history as a profession.” Finally, we start to see historians being held accountable for what they are writing, in that historians were required to verify claims through citations and determine reliability by looking at inaccuracies and inconsistencies. This isn't new to historiography, per se, but it is more important now that history is being challenged like any other professional academia.

I personally like the Enlightenment period because it truly is the part of human history where history is going hand-in-hand with other academic subjects like science. In the Metahistory essay, Mancha states that the French and American Revolution were "directly insprired by Enlightenment" and in the case of the American Revolution, yes this is wholeheartedly true. You have a time where thinkers are coming togther with both their individual thought and (personal) empirical data, comparing their experiences to many others, and deciding to break from tradition. 

One question that I had (which is very specific but I loved that Cheng highlighted it in the chapter): **How do we feel about Edward Gibbon and his Enlightenment thinking about the *Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire*?** I've always felt that there wasn't really a *fall* of Rome, but rather a decline that led to the rise of what is Modern Western Civilization. I just wanted to know what other people thought of this new, *enlightened* thinking about a well-known historical event.
