# Commonalities and Differences between Enlightenment Thinkers Approaches to History. 

The Enlightenment thinking is “often described as the long 18th century, the philosophical movement known as The Enlightenment spanned roughly 1685-1815 and has held a crucial place in the narratives of history and the methods of historiography” (Mancha). Enlightenment thinkers sought the “systematic inquiry into laws and principles that governed human nature laid the basis for a science society that would both explain and further the progress of humanity and lay a basis for a scientific society” (Cheng, 33). Enlightened historians used two innovative approaches to sources and inquiry using empiricism (knowledge derived from sensory experience) and secular frameworks (separation of church).” (Macha).  

This approach shifted history from literary rhetoric to the scientific and systematic process of verifying and citing sources, weighing all tangible evidence, looking for any inaccuracies and inconsistencies, and cataloguing historical facts, making history a profession. “In the hope of making knowledge systematic and scientific,” the Enlightened historians added social dimensions and advanced ideals using reason, science, and progress, to discover universal truths about human nature (Cheng, 41). The emergence of rational inquiry was developed to explain human agency and causation, and to move away from the traditional and religious authorities divine and hierarchy explanations. 

Enlightenment approaches throughout Europe unified in the questioning of traditional authority and the church and embracing the idea that humanity can be improved through rational inquiry. Reason was so important to Enlightenment thinkers because they believed it was necessary path to improving society and achieving progression for all humanity, and the rejection of traditional authority and faith, oriented Enlightenment thinkers away from the past and “further their belief in progress” (Cheng, 31).  

Out of the common themes of rational questioning and belief in progress through inquiry and discussion, there was not a unified Enlightenment. German, French, Scottish, American, English, and Dutch Enlightenments often took different approaches. Roberston observed and analyzed stages of development in different societies, he held that by means of “the power of commerce as a civilizing force, giving broad perspectives and promoted a spirit of intellectual curiosity and enterprise, gave rise to European exploration” and justify conquest and dispossession” (Cheng, 44-45). Gibbons sought to look beyond the nationalistic prejudices to admit interdependence and interconnectedness of all nations which was necessary for progression. The Conjectural history approach was born from “gaps in the historical record and the lack of historical documents for earlier stages in their theory required them to conjecture about what happened in those earlier stages”(Cheng, 41).  

Although Enlightenment historians and thinkers did not always unify in approaches, they all worked towards expanding the boundaries of history and the understanding of human nature through reasoning and analysis in hopes to make knowledge about human nature and society more systematic and scientific” (Cheng, 41).  