One of the major things that I personally learned was that I have to think about the big question of the semester of “what is history for”. Like many other people, history majors or otherwise, I was still thinking history was just telling what most likely happened in the past. This class made me think about what history means to me and I still have yet to come up with an answer to the question. Another thing that this class drove home for me was that the old saying “history never changes” is so laughably wrong after this class and history is constantly changing with new stories being told and new questions being asked. The change forced me to ask another question for me to ask if I believe history is more of a science or not which still, I have not found an answer to. The biggest thing that I learned was that when it comes to extremist post-modernist questions is so what and that their points do not matter because we live our lives not knowing 100% of things.

 I also took home that when I am writing I have to stop and think about what paradigms I inherently and the framework paradigm I am using so I can see the weaknesses in them and address them so I can be more objective in my writing moving forward. Also, when it comes to loaded words like progress to define what that word means to me because it can mean a lot of different things to different people. The next thing that this class taught me not only when writing history but also talking about history is that you need to let people know what your understanding of what you think are known truths in the world because they are not universal and can bring confusion and argument about what you are talking about otherwise. The class brought to mind that I did not realize how much of a minefield it seems that writing history is. Though I do feel like I can navigate that minefield and avoid the pitfalls. I understood that historians would disagree about things, but I did not know about the currently two dug-in camps that there are. I also learned to think about is when I write to think about the reader as well and how those effects how I write. 
 
The class also taught me about how much power the archives have when it comes to what we know about the past and what the archives decide to hold on to or not retain. Even though I still have 2 years before I graduate, I like to look at what jobs are out there and notice that archivists do not get paid for how much actual power that they have over the past. This was a big wake-up for me because I never thought about archives like many others and did not think about what documents are in them and how that can shape what I write about or the answers that I receive from the sources. 

The class also talked about public history which I will still have to admit I do not fully understand but I did understand that it is the history communicated to the public and the question of credibility when it comes to dealing with the public. And also, that these public histories along with academic histories have a bias in them and that when you are reading you need to try to understand the paradigms that are there and that they will always be there. Now I do think that both public and academic history should work together to make a clearer representation of the past, but this also leads to the issue of the many different stories of the past. 

Overall, for the class, it was my favorite class of this semester and I enjoyed going to class knowing that we would have a discussion and bring up points that I missed or talk about other points that the other classmates thought were important. Now some of the readings were tough but because they were tough it made me sit down and engage with the reading more than I would if it was an easier read. Another thing that I enjoyed was that you made it feel like that there were no wrong answers to the questions, that history is not black and white but all types of grey. Another thing that this class was great for was the class pace. I never felt rushed to get anything done or that we were blowing through topics to stay on track with the syllabus. I know that this will sound like a copout, but I cannot think of any real critical and genuine improvements to the class. The only thing I can think about as an improvement would be for the reading questions to maybe have one specific question and one question being more on finding out what people took away from the reading itself. 
