Before this class, I had some conception of historical thought and its significance for historical writing. My minor degree in sociology assisted in the conception of understanding various things from certain perspectives. However, the course of historiography, the history of history, completely opened wide my conception of history and how to understand historical thought. 

Early in the semester, one of the most profound distinctions of history that I have never considered is the difference between history and the past. From history comes the academic, almost scientific side, that is history and the writing about history. This side of history is important as that is what we are doing as students currently. Our meta-history projects are emblematic of this concept, writing about history through history and its paradigms. The other side of history, the telling of the past, is an artistic expression that is meant to contextualize historical events and even their significance as digestible information for the larger public.  The biggest examples of this telling of history are history YouTubers, cable history shows, and even podcasts. 

The most interesting conversations I have had in the class centered around discussions about postmodernism, Fulbrook, and archives. The biggest concept I understood was understanding paradigms and the audience of history writers. One of my biggest worries from the postmodernist school was this idea that history doesn’t matter, which was a completely crushing idea. However, Fulbrook comes in with her constant questioning of postmodernist historians’ conclusions about the history and in a very complicated and abstract way confronts this idea and proposes that history does matter in many ways for many different people. At least for me, I felt like I could enjoy history in a new refreshing worldview. 

I also have come to understand that when considering and criticizing works of historians, it is important to understand what their biases might be, paradigms, perspectives, and who are they writing to. A Marxist historian who is Marxist writing about socialist history is going to operate in a totally different framework than a Marxist historian who is a capitalist, writing about the same history. It comes to be important to understand the author of such texts and the scope of their writings. I have come to understand that there are multiple different truths out in the world, not just one monolithic truth to historical writing. 

When it came time to start considering our Metahistory essays, I knew I wanted to cover something about a period and place of interest to me, Russia. In many ways, Russia is still a mystery to the west. Due to a century of antagonistic foreign policy towards each other, trying to achieve understanding between us became difficult and even discriminatory. I chose to write about historical Russian thought because I feel there is a perspective to be understood. This idea of understanding the other frameworks brings a form of progress to discussion between these two hemispheres. To be a responsible historian, I must admit my biases. I love the Russian language, culture, and religion. I attained interest in this side of the world because of religion, as I am a Catholic and have an invested interest in common with my church for the ecumenical union of our churches one day. 

But why would I say this? If I interpreted what I learned from this class correctly, it is important to convey your biases and predilections beforehand. Not so you can be avoided (although people can absolutely do so if they choose), but so people can have an easier time understanding the framework of your writing and perspective. 

Something else this class provides for me is the understanding of how I want to convey history to future generations. I never really knew how I wanted to go about it until I have had discussions with this class about the meaning of history and its distinctions. It very importantly taught me to consider my audiences as well. One of my considered career paths is teaching, and while teaching about the past is important in history classes, teaching students how to engage with history is vastly more important. Students gain more value learning about how to write and research papers than just learning historical facts like George Washington crossing the Delaware River. This class helped break that façade and gave me focus on how to compose these ideas for the various understandings of people I meet. 

I may have had difficulties showing up to class during the semester, and I am ever thankful for Dr. Gibb’s benevolence. I am glad that I persisted in the class as Historiography is the penultimate understanding of what being a history major is all about. The pseudo-philosophical and philosophical debates in the class over just about anything were both entertaining and enlightening. I have met amazing people in this class that I hope nothing but the best for. 
