The public history portion of class interested me the most because I plan on being a secondary level history teacher. I feel that they are somewhat comparable jobs. Most history (and social studies) education in high school does not require a great deal of knowledge beyond what is in the textbook so there is not a need from the teacher to be a subject matter expert on one particular person, place, or time period.

I really appreciate the public history approach of being a bit knowledgeable on a wide variety of topics because I do not like to research only one thing at a time. Most of my historical knowledge may only be surface level but is that really a problem? I think no because secondary teachers are not professional historians, so they do not need be experts of all things American History for example.

The subject of historiography as a whole is such an odd one to me. It was interesting to learn about how some people “completely changed the way we did history” but I am still coming away with the question of what is the need to learn this? It makes sense to learn how someone like Ranke made history more professional when strictly learning about Ranke but as an entire branch of history, I am not completely sold.

I really struggled in this class because most of the time I felt that the material went over my head. It may have just been a case of overthinking it, but I really felt like most of the material was too abstract for me to understand. The discussions helped me understand the material much better. A lot of it was validating my own opinion and hearing others give their opinions brought perspectives that I was not even thinking about.

I feel that I did not fully get everything Mary Fullbrook was getting at in her book because she wrote in a way that only PhDs could understand. From the class discussions and Professor Gibbs opinions, I found that I do like the point she was getting at. Her “so what?” to the postmodernist ideas was interesting to think about. There does not always have to be answer to the critiques of modern histories. Sometimes the way things are done are just the way they are done. In the history profession, nothing everything can ever be known but we do know is good enough.

The history or literature debate is one that I will continue to ponder about in the future. Before this class I did not think of history in those terms but the debate does make sense. History has to be written in a way for people to actually care. No one wants to just learn dates and names, but when those dates and names are woven into a story with a narrative, people will become much more interested. I imagine most historians know that people are only going to care about what they are saying when it is written with a hero in mind or there is a really interesting journey.

I think the fine line in the debate is where the plausibility begins and ends. Historians have to make educated guesses about what happened in the past but they cannot make guesses that are so fantastical as to not be believed by anyone. “Abraham Lincoln freed the slaves because he believed slavery was morally wrong” is more plausible as opposed to “Abraham Lincoln freed the slaves because aliens told him”. This sort of goes back to the public history debate as well because some people also believe whatever they hear from any figure they deem authoritative.

I am not really sure which, if any specifically, of the course materials helped me write my Metahistory paper. It might have been a culmination of the materials and discussions together that allowed me to even begin writing my essay. In theory, historiography sounds simple but actually figuring out how one person or group created history differently or in a new way is difficult to figure out. I read through 20 to 25 books and articles on my essay and I still do not have a firm grasp on my historiographical topic but I think I did learn enough throughout the course to make a coherent argument in my essay.

I am not sure if I will use anything from this course outside of this class. I do plan to continue in a profession that I consider to be adjacent to history, which is intelligence. I have to create products that are similar to history articles where I have to craft a narrative that is supported by factual sources but I also have to make educated guesses since we can never know what someone else is thinking. They too are peer reviewed and if they are wrong, I lose complete credibility.

My final reflection is that I enjoyed the class! Thanks Professor Gibbs!
