First and foremost I want to reflect on how enjoyable the course was. The class discussions were interesting, informative, and incorporated the viewpoints students in a way that really added more value than traditional lecturing. I feel like this format and the specific direction we received from Prof. Gibbs was especially helpful in grasping the sometimes-nebulous subject of historiography. 

Establishing early that historiography is distinct from history, and that it changes over time, helped later in the course as we began to explore the way people have conveyed events onto their version of the historical record. Learning about how historians approached the writing of history differently through historical periods was key as we began to investigate more modern approaches to history and their focus on the perspectives and paradigms of those who write history. It felt at times early in the course that some of this discussion of these early historians was unnecessary, however by the end of the semester the purpose of starting there was obvious. One subject that we covered briefly that I would have been interested in exploring more thoroughly was the Annales school, specifically Braudel, and the concept of the longue durée and its focus on very long periods of time and the slow change characteristic of things like geography which I found endlessly interesting. There was some discussion of this in class, but it remains a subject I would love to study more in depth at some point in the future.

The subject that excited me most this semester was definitely the idea of postmodernism. While I have always been superficially aware that the point of view of an author is important, the idea that historical objectivity is rendered impossible because historical accounts are merely a literary construction closer to fiction than any actual event. The idea that an objective historical truth doesn’t exist, or cannot ever be perceived, was incredibly impactful for me. While I didn’t entirely accept the postmodern perspective, it did make me much more aware of how absolutely essential considering the perspective of historians is. 

The multi-week discussion of Fulbrook reinforced this idea, reframing the problem of true objectivity as one that can be solved by the acceptance of not only the historian’s perspective but also our own perspective as consumers of historical writing. The entire process of reading through Fulbrook’s book and coming to this conclusion on how I view historiography tied together all of the questions we asked at the beginning of the class. I can now answer the question, “What is history for?” in a way that is more personal and in forming a personal belief on the subject I was more able to understand the significance of the question. When reading any historical account in the future I will now reflexively ask how the historian was influenced by their environment and the events that occurred within it, as well as how these events interface with the author’s paradigms and agendas. With this deeper more fundamental understanding of what the writing of history truly consists of, I can begin to form a more nuanced conception of what historiography is.

I feel like the Metahistory project helped me to apply this idea as I researched how Petrarch changed historiography. Early in the process I was wrongfully approaching the project as a pure history project but as my conception of historiography firmed, I realized that I needed to take an approach that not only asked how Petrarch’s work changed how history was written but also needed to question how Petrarch as a historical figure shaped the perspective of the historians that followed him. As I worked on the project with this in my mind, I found myself more excited by Petrarch and how his influence permeates historiography. This energy helped me to craft a project that better fits with the rest of the Metahistory site.

Thinking about how what I’ve learned in this class can be applied outside of history I can’t help but consider Fulbrook and her argument that understanding any work requires an understanding of the paradigm of the creator of that work in conjunction with an understanding of my own. This is an approach that should help me to better understand people in any setting and will be invaluable in assessing information of any kind going forward. Be it in personal interactions, consuming news and other information, or things like viewing art, I will always endeavor to better understand by considering the paradigms and agendas that contributed to what I’m presented with. I also leave this class with a much-improved opinion on the value of classroom discussions. I have never taken much time to think about how my classmates were evaluating the things we cover in class but going forward I will always be curious to know their perspective.
