This class offered new and interesting insights on how to look and study history.
Even though this class was a requirement for my degree, I really enjoyed it because it allowed me to see things in a new light and think about history in different ways.
This was also the second time I had taken this class, that be it with a different professor, and I have to say that definitely made the difference in how I retained the information, and having the class meet in person also really helped.
My favorite part of this class was the in-class discussions because it was interesting to hear from the class about the topic being discussed and voice my opinion on the readings and how the topic involved the study of history as a whole. 
I enjoyed the readings as well, I thought that they were relevant to what we were talking about in class and they provided good insight on history and the historians purpose for studying history. 
There were many topics from the readings and the in class discussions that stuck with me and that I will remember going forward. This included looking at history as a piece of a puzzle in the bigger picture or historical context, as well as the differences between looking at history from a critical thinking lens versus looking at it through the lens of an artist. 
I enjoyed getting to know my classmates and hearing their thinking processes and voice their opinions during the discussions. I will be completely honest when I say that the least favorite part of this class, as informative as it was, I think the Github site was a bit difficult to navigate and the metahistory site as used for uploading our essay was a bit frustrating and hard to navigate as well.
But overall, I felt this class was very informative and it was a joy to come to class and discuss the readings. The assignments were really helpful with learning about the material and having the professor be willing and wanting to clarify and help as a class or individually was really helpful and made me feel more comfortable with asking for help. 
As long and sometimes dence the readings may have been on occasion, they still provided good insight to the topic at hand, and discussing them in class deeply helped with better understanding the material. 
