This class has been one of, if not the most intellectually challenging classes I have taken during my college career. I have always struggled with heavy philosophical and abstract concepts that are theory drenched as it is, and so to take a class that is so focused on it was daunting. That being said, I am so happy that this class was taught by Dr. Gibbs, because I feel that he was a great guide through the material, was able to get us to think about these things in ways that we (or at least I) wouldn't have otherwise. 

The first third of the class was my favorite part. I really enjoyed learning about historiography as a whole across time and different cultures. There were certain things, particularly the ways in which time was viewed or conceptions of progress, that I was aware of from a very general standpoint but wasn't well versed in. Getting a grounding as to how important those concepts were to people and historians in the past was fascinating and was something that I tried to come back to as we moved forward through the course. Now, when I stop and think about historical periods or am reading a particular work I try and think about what the author thinks about history in terms of progress and time. Is it linear? Is it cyclical? Does they ebb and flow? What is their sense of progress based on? 

The second third of the class when we read *Historical Theory* by Mary Fulbrook was probably my least favorite part. I recognize that it was my least favorite because it was so incredibly abstract and challenging and most days I felt as if my brain was going to fall out of my ears. While I feel that I have already brain-dumped much of what Fulbrook was discussing, some of Fulbrook's concepts have seeped in to my thought process whether I like it or not. 

I've found myself thinking about what my own paradigms and frameworks are (or could be) and how they may have been shaped. Am I contributing to a type of metanarrative with my writing and thinking? Is that a good or bad thing? What are my biases and how have those influenced what I've thought, written or discussed? In doing this and asking these questions of myself I am attempting, whether I'm really conscious of it or not, to become more transparent in a wide variety of ways. It's been difficult to come up with any sort of conclusive answer to these questions, however, and I'm sure that over time my own understanding of myself and how I percieve the world and how those perceptions are included into my work will reveal themselves to me as long as I continue to be mindful of them. 

The MetaHistory essays were a really unique way to get us to understand more about historiography at the beginning of the class, as well as a cool way to use what we have learned to the benefit of future courses and students. I appreciated that there was so much more to it than just "write and essay and turn it in." Learning skills like how to use GitHub and Markdown and Dillinger was fun and likely will be useful in the future. 

One thing that writing the MetaHistory essay taught me is that even if you are interested in learning about a particular historiographical topic, writing about it won't be easy. Romantic history is fascinating, but it also encompasses so much. It was really difficult nailing down exactly what path I wanted to take with my writing, and I still feel like I could have done a better job with encorporating the historiographical context. I think, however, that because this is my first time exploring this topic not only in a paper, but in general, I'm mostly happy with what I produced and I definitely feel like I know more about it now. 

Finally, I think that my favorite thing about this class has been the people in it, and the discussions we've had. I really enjoyed learning about everyone though their reading responses and their opinions in class. There were so many times that someone would say something that more accurately articulated something that I was thinking, or that someone would say something that I had never thought of at all before, and that was really incredible. I was glad that students felt comfortable working out complex thoughts in front of others, because it helped me feel more comfortable in doing the same. Knowing that everyone was more or less in the same boat with the difficulty and abstractness of historiography was comforting. 

Thanks, Dr. Gibbs, for the challenge. 
