Final Course Reflections 

To be honest I had little to no idea what to expect when I was getting ready to sign up for a Histography class. I knew it was necessary for my criteria in order to graduate with a History degree but outside of that I had no idea what I was in store for. When we first started the class, you asked us Professor Gibbs “what was is History for?” That question will stay with me probably throughout my life whenever I think about History or Historical narrative. This class challenged my perceptions on what History was how its written and who History is for. The answer to all these questions are not easily explained or simplified and I’ve learned throughout this semester that that is ok and maybe it’s fine we don’t have all the answers clearly stated in a textbook or at the ready to be recited as law. The ambiguity of that question “What is History for?” can be looked at from so many directions and perspectives and that’s one of the main points that I will be taking away Historiography 491  that History and its uses are complex and not easily defined and its ok for some ambiguity to always exist because that means there’s always room for change or growth or new questions to be asked. 

Another thing that I thought about that came up a lot during class was the notion of “progress” throughout the class we kind of viewed the notion of “progress” as a dirty word that needed to be dissected. I was thinking about how I was taught History is my elementary classes than on to middle school and High School and the notion of progress was always something positive when it came to History. Well in this class we actually broke it down and saw that progress for some meant oppression and in some cases destruction of others who were on the losing end of “progress”. We saw how nationalistic histories can be problematic and how the lens of History needs to be taken with a grain of salt when it comes to them. Learning this has helped me be more conscious when I am writing about History or reading someone else write about History it has made me more aware of biases not only of other writers but of biases that I have as well. 

Another thing that I took away from the class was when we got to Mary Fullbrooks book and how dense and challenging it was to get through. It was a challenge for me just to be able to grasp what she was talking about when it came to frameworks and paradigms and puzzle solving techniques that historians can use. I think what I got most from the Fulbrook section was that transparency matters in writing History. Also, we were able to see how passionate Fulbrook was in defending History from post-modernist writers and critics who were putting forward the notion that in the end History didn’t matter and it was pointless. Fulbrooks book is a great tool to be able to use in the future to read over again simply because there is a lot to digest and its best to digest in small portions in my opinion. 

Another aspect of the class that I thought was very interesting was the use and want for public history. I liked how we looked at how professional historians can help bridge a gap with the public in order to gain greater understanding of historical events without wondering too far off track. It seems to me that a partnership is needed in order to make public history work. With social media advancing and evolving quite quickly and the demand for pubic history growing it seems that professional historians are going to have to not completely change how they. approach and communicate their research, but I believe some communication will have to be recalibrated and more access between the public and Historians is inevitable in the future. 

In conclusion I just wanted to say this was one of the most enjoyable mind-bending question lingering classes I have taken at my whole time here at UNM. I loved the format of the class where it was open discussion every class and how everyone is the class was willing to discuss and at sometimes be stumped by a discussion point or idea. I liked when we didn’t have all the answers no matter how hard we would try to justify a point or idea. I also like how conversations would evolve and new understandings would emerge those were the best discussions when we could come up with metaphors and news ways of interpretation from improvisation that was sparked by discussion in class about the subjects at hand.  I think some of the ways to possibly improve the course or make it better is the format. Maybe having the class available on MWF would lead to more specific questions being able to be debated more in depth. Also, maybe splitting the class into two groups and each group tackles a specific question or the same questions and at the end of class the two groups submit questions to the other group? It’s just a way to get even more input from the class to be able to discuss and debate the topics. But anyway that all I got and thank you Professor Gibbs for such an interesting class its really one that sticks with you for a long time. 
