As we began our course in August, I felt somewhat prepared for our class, although I was not entirely sure of this.  I had taken a class with Dr. Gibbs before, so I felt as though I understood what our coursework would be like.  This statement was basically true for the first few weeks of class as we read over articles and previous Metahistory essays about historiography through different historical periods.  These topics were the most interesting to me, especially when the historiographical ideas related to periods I enjoy learning about (medieval, Renaissance, Early Modern).  The Metahistory essays were highly informative, and I was very impressed with how much background they provided into various periods.

Once our materials began to cover the Enlightenment, our class discussions and readings became a bit more challenging, but not overly so.  Learning about Ranke and the professionalization of history was very fascinating.  I felt like our readings about this period helped me feel like I had a foundational understanding of where many of the theories of historiography emerged.

When we began to look at modern examples of historiographic thought, however, the ideas and theories became much more conceptualized and more challenging to understand.  Reading about the postcolonial historiography of India and understanding subaltern criticism of mainstream historical thinking was significant for me to learn about.  I feel like these are topics about history (and historiography) that I would like to know more about. Now that I have a new perspective on the writings of those later and more modern Indian histories, I can approach this subject with a more critical mindset.

This was particularly true when we read our textbook by Mary Fulbrook, and I felt the challenges of comprehending the abstract concepts in her writings.  What truly helped me to fully grasp some of these ideas were the questions and answers that arose in our class discussions.  Listening to my classmate’s thoughts and responses to the great questions that Dr. Gibbs posed aided my ability to have a vague sense of some of the complicated topics Fulbrook wrote about.

I have to say that the Fulbrook text was the most challenging thing about our class overall.  I can confidently state that after reading it, I am able to approach any topic (not just history) much more critically and ask myself, “Why is this person saying this?” or “What is this person’s point of view, and how does this affect the information they are providing?”  Fulbrook’s assertions about paradigms and objectivity allowed me to look at historical research and writing in a completely new way.  

Fulbrook's book truly changed my feelings and thoughts about history in general, and it seems as though I had been taking history for granted in a way.  Essentially, I did question some of the historical writings and topics I’ve had experience with in the past, but now it seems like my logic and approach to historical topics and various researchers is on a whole new level.  I can sense that this new logic had bled over into many other areas of my life, even the small “stuff” like watching the news.  Mostly this new frame of mind has allowed me to be more critical about what is presented as factual and “true,” and to be comfortable with questioning things and maybe realizing whether certain information is attempting to be objective or not.

As we brainstormed topics for our own Metahistory essays, I kept coming back to the readings we discussed about archival power and how this has shaped history and research overall.  I admit that I have a soft spot for archival work, mostly because I have done a bit of it in past jobs. Still, I had not honestly stopped to consider the implications of power in the archive.  I am not sure why it had never occurred to me before, but after our archive topic readings and discussions, I had decided to write my Metahistory essay on the basic beginnings of archival theory.  

After reading Terry Cook’s article for the class, I knew I had to include the idea of inclusion and diversity in the archives in my essay.  This was one of the most important course topics, outside of the myriad of things Fulbrook discussed, that I was extremely interested in.  I also knew I wanted to include writings from Terry Cook in my essay and I was even able to specifically cite a quote from one of his conference papers about archival diversity.

Now that it is December and we are wrapping up the semester, I can honestly say that this was one of the most challenging classes I took this Fall.  It was also one of the most fun, primarily because of our class discussions and how they related to our readings.  I actually looked forward to class and will miss the lively debates and conversations.

