## Final Course Reflection ##

When I say that this was one of my favorite history classes that I’ve ever taken, I truly mean it. The fact that I was better able to gain a better understanding of a subject that I adored while being able to better my practice of history has been something I looked forward to every week. The readings we did, the discussions we had, the metaphors we conjured up in class—there is no better way to spend the last semester I had at UNM.

I know we all struggled with it but reading Mary Fulbrook’s *Historical Theory* was eye-opening for me as a historian. I struggled with overcoming Postmodern theory and approach to history; it all seemed too pessimistic to me, too dismal of a view on history and its place in academia. Fulbrook took all the arguments that historians have been having since the 70s and 80s, and said, “This is how we ensure we don’t give up on history.” Fulbrook’s writing was lengthy and longwinded and honestly, difficult to read at times, but it’s necessary for historians and future historians like us in this class to read because it helps one realize what they need to do to be a better historian. Although I knew that they existed but never knew what they were called or recognized, discovering that there were paradigms or frameworks that all historians tend to work through helped me realize what kind of historian I wanted to be. 

Another great part of the semester was our dance around the topic of whether history is more a science than an art. I started the semester thinking that history is *just* a science, a subject in academia that is researched thoroughly, written about extensively, then published in a journal for the history community to enjoy. The only time I truly say history as art was when history had a fictional narrative like the ones we see in movies, books, TV shows, etc. But as we went through the semester, the line between science and art began to blur, and the week where we discussed Romantic and Critical History was where my mind was made up; history is the perfect balance of art and science. Reading about Leopold von Ranke and how he defines history as a science and knows how to write (with Romantic influence) with "literary art" made me realize that there is a way for historians to educate and entertain. Romantic and Critical History week also gave us Wilhelm von Humboldt who had a wonderful way of saying that there is a way to balance truth, freedom of approach, subtlety, and tact to record history. 
They added beauty into the science of history for me, which I lost sight of for a while.

I wish we would’ve gotten more into the subject of nationalism, and its historiographical significance for narrative. I think it was a subject that we skirted around all semester, but I think that is because nationalism and historical narrative are so passionately intertwined. I do think that it is important though, and we touched on it during the Postcolonialism week, but it might have enough weight to hold an entire week’s worth of discussion and readings.

I struggled with the Public History week, which made it a little difficult to like the material or at least get excited about it. I think it has the same weight as nationalism, where there is so much information to study/research but it’s a passionate subject. I think this was a subject that needed more than a day’s worth of discussion because it helped answer the encompassing question of the semester, “What is history?” or “What is history for?”
As for what I’m going to be taking from this class and using it outside of history or anything related to history—pretty much all the technological skills I’ve learned in this class I will try to practice and perfect. When I brought up the fact that we’d been using GitHub in one of my political science classes, my professor kind of geeked out on me and was so excited to hear that we were using GitHub in a history class and that I was coding a website/essay for public consumption. He told me that even with the little I knew about GitHub, it was worth putting on my resume because it’s an admirable skill. I also will take Zotero with me into grad school, because it is a wonderful tool for acquiring research material in one place. 

I think back to that first week before we read Machiavelli or Fulbrook or Southgate when we were able to answer the question, “What is history?” to a basic degree. We had an idea of what history was and what it was for, but we didn’t have the tools we have now to better answer those questions. What I’ve been able to take away from this class is that history is more than just the facts written down and read; there are frameworks in which historians view history and present it, there are narratives always at play and more responsibility on historians than I was aware. It made me consider what I wanted to do as a historian, how I wanted to work as a historian, and how I would present my work as a historian. That is why I took my *Metahistory* assignment as seriously as I did because it is the work I want to present as a historian after this historiography class.

This class made me a better student, a better historian, and a better person. I enjoyed meeting with you all and hearing the things you had to say because it helped me become that better student, historian, and person. I wish everyone luck in their studies and hope that wherever history takes you (or your education in general) that it makes you happy as it makes me.

Kelly
