As a history student who enjoys learning history (go figure) I greatly enjoyed the portion of the class that dealt with historiography prior to the modern era. The methodologies and theoretical space that classical, late-antique and medieval historians inhabited is fascinating. However, I think the portion of the class that focused on modern historiography was the most useful as a historian-in-training, particularly postmodernism as it's the paradigm we inhabit (or, at least, the most proximate paradigm). We spent a good amount of class time discussing postmodernism. But I think it would have been good to explore a bit whether we've in some ways left the post-modern condition which has been around 50 years at this point. What are the cutting-edge theoretical developments taking place in history today?

In-keeping with this line of thought, we spent a little time (maybe a class period and a half) on digital history which I think could have been focused on a little more. In particular, I am still relatively excited about the possibilities in applying "big data" to historical investigation in general in spite of what I gather is serious skepticism on your part, Professor Gibbs, as to whether it's really all that useful in the creation of some kind of semi-deterministic laws of human societal evolution and development through history. Papers I've read, especially those that utilize environmental/climatic/ecological data, seem to hold great promise in this regard. I do think this is the realm that historical investigation is going to continue to move into as time progresses. I think our globalized and increasingly digitized world is becoming more cognizant of the environment and the biosphere, as well as our species' place within these biophysical networks, and so the 'doing of history' will increasingly rely on historical proxies in these areas to expand our understanding of the human past.

As you've said before, the past is over and done with and we have but limited access to it. Previously, this access took the form primarily of textual sources, and this eventually expanded to include other sources like archeological finds. We opened historical investigation to include archeological analysis as we collectively realized that History is encoded in the sediment and earth beneath our feet, and that the past is very much tangible in these layers of refuse and decaying ruins that have been buried and built over, forgotten, for centuries. Opening historical investigation into even deeper archeological layers and expanding the dataset to include other biophysical proxies may (and probably already has to some extent) expand the possibilites of historical investigation into the development of human society over time. 

As a quick example, the history of past human societies that lived in regenerative cooperation with their ecologies is increasingly becoming important as we try to transition our own currently extractive and wasteful global economy to more resemble one that exists in equilibrium with biophysical capacities. I was reading recently about holistic management in the context of regenerative agriculture and trying to parse the research and arrive at a conclusion regarding the benefits of livestock and grazing in localized, circular systems. The history of hunter-gatherer societies, megafaunal extinctions, grazing herd migrations and the like are intrinsically essential to this research, as is the history of agrarianism and the rise of capitalist production modes and internationalized trade which eventually culminated in the global neoliberal finance capitalism we have today.

Anyway, I would have liked a little more time to spend discussing the creation of big data sets, especially biophysical data, and what it means for historical investigation in the near future.

I greatly enjoyed the Metahistory project I worked on. As you suggested, a historiography of "totalitarian" states turned out to be quite a project, so ambitions were eventualy scaled back as I realized the sheer amount of research I would have to go through. It was surprisingly difficult to find information on the historiography of fascist Italy, at least in comparison to the mountains written on the Third Reich. What I did learn about the doing of history under Nazism and the Weimar era was fascinating and I hope that my essay explores that realm satisfactorily. I think I made clear in the essay the importance of historians in shaping the cultural context in which Nazism rose and democracy collapsed in Germany in the 30s, and the research dovetailed nicely with discussions of impartiality and objectivity we had in class and in the readings.

Class discussions were always great to participate in as it allows the airing of confusions and allows us to integrate our thoughts into "class thought" such that I was never really lost in what could be at times very abstract, theoretical historiographical concepts. Hopefully my comments made sense and were not too off-topic, including my little written polemics on the intersections with environmental science and history. In many ways I can't help it, it's where my mind has been focused lately.

As for GitHub: initially I was a little apprehensive about using a totally new method of submitting work that didn't rely on UNM Learn, but I am glad in the end that we used GitHub. I can clearly see its utility, and I actually like it a lot (though it seems like a lot of work to put together a website compared to the plug-and-play website creators that are around nowadays). So, thank you for introducing the site.

Finally, thank you for recording the lectures. It is immensely helpful to be able to return to a class discussion and listen through after the fact. And thanks for the great semester! This was one of the best classes I've taken at UNM, and I am very glad I chose this course as a capstone for my history degree. Happy Holidays and Merry Christmas! -Mike
