## Final Course Reflection

I had found this course to be extremely enjoyable and thought-provoking. It had gotten me to think about history in ways which I had never thought of before. From the literal history of history, to the struggle through Fulbrook's *Historical Theory*, to our final metahistory essay. It was all extremely important, I feel, for any serious student of history. 

For much of the first part of the course, we had talked about the history of history, that is, the history of how history was written, thought about, and understood. From antiquity, to post-modernism, the approach to history has changed significantly over the centuries. This was something I was not aware of prior to having taken the course. Sure, I had some sense of how the understanding of history had changed over the years, but I had beilieved these changes as "ancient historians didn't value objectivity and so exaggerated the facts or sometimes even outright fabricated them, but now historians understand the value of objectivity and impartiality". I was completely ignorant to any sort of medieval historical writing. 

What first struck me, however, was the depth to which our class discussions went. For example our discussions on linear vs. circular history, human understandings of God's role in history during the medieval period, how the Reformation created a historical narrative linking their movement to the ancient Church, how humanism changed the view of the relationship between God and historical events, etc. culminating in our discussions on post-modernism. In retrospect, I feel like our discussions grew increasingly nuanced, and this makes sense, as we initially had presumably very little knowledge of historiography, with the nuance growing as our understandings deepened. I do not know if this is something you did intentionally, Professor Gibbs, or if the history of history has been ever-increasingly nuance thus our discussions reflecting that. In any case, our discussions, especially regarding the scopes of history (i.e. the *longue duree*) and then Fulbrook's work, really expanded the way I had conceived of history.

I had struggled with a couple of things this semester, one reading in particular, that being the reading on Indian history in the context of British colonialism. For whatever reason, most of that reading just seemed to go over my head, and I had a hard time pondering whether histories of countries with colonial pasts can truly be separated from their experiences of that colonialism. Fulbrook, though a challenge in itself, became understood once I reread it a couple of times.

Speaking of Fulbrook, I really enjoyed the reading, challenging as it may be. I enjoyed the thesis, because initially I thought that it was going to go the route of arguing for extreme post-modernism, but rather it was a balanced thesis between post-modernism and empiricism, and I quite liked that. Every time she would argue her point by drawing from either side of the debate, I couldn't help but to think of the concept of the Golden Mean. It appears that ancient wisdom is, at least to me, the best wisdom, at least in this instance. Overall, Fulbrook's work had gotten me to think about history in a dimension I would have never even conceived of. In the tradition of our class's love for the use of metaphor, Fulbrook made me feel like I was a square discovering for the first time that cubes existed. Prior to my reading of her book, my understanding of history was rather flat, but now I feel as though it has depth. Such a good writer is she that she managed to do this in a relatively short work, and in a style that was not too difficult to comprehend but also  enjoyable to read.

Finally, I would like to talk about the metahistory essay. In attempting to come up with a topic for my essay, I was trying to think of one which would complement the existing essays on the site. I had seen that medieval historiography was lacking compared to the other categories, which was perfect because medieval history is my favorite era of history. Additionally, I've been listening to a podcast on Byzantine history all semester long and from there I had thought "what about the history of Byzantine history?" so that's what I went with. I found it especially fitting because there were already essays on Greek and Roman historiography and so I felt that it would add to those. 

I would be amiss not to mention the tools shown to us throughout the course, such as Zotero, GitHub, Dillinger, etc. This is probably the most practically useful part of the course. Zotero is probably the most relavant tool for me moving forward, but I have definitely experimented with GitHub pages as a direct result of this class. 

Overall, this class was an extremely fascinating and enjoyable course to be a art of but also, it taught me some really important skills and showed me some important tools which I can use in the future, which I was absolutely not expecting.

Thank you for one of my favorite courses that I have ever taken.