Historiography is an tough but amazing class. I learned how to identify paradigms and concepts, and how historical writing has evolved over time. I enjoyed having class conversations where we enriched our understandings and too a deeper look into significance and what that might mean to different people. The topics that most stuck with me are paradigms and silences in arhives. Paradigms because they are how historians can communicate their ideas in a more explicit way. Archivial silences stuck with me because it brings perspective on how others feel about the Western dominant meta history. 

This class does give plenty of work and in order to understand it you must read and re-read it again and again, so grasping the idea or concept becomes clearer. Then we have class conversations about those items, which helps with what may seem unclear. One must invest themselves in this class to do well, and I felt that everyone there felt that they were investing in learning. I don't have a preference on what material I liked the best, it was all relevant to the learning process and helped with applying what we have learning to build a meta history. Although building the page and coding was not easy, it truly was the highlight of this class for me. I have never even tried to learn this type of programing before and yes it was at times frusterating, but overall, and of course with the help of Prof. Gibbs when needed, I was a capable of doing both and felt pretty good about learning how to navigate and use this technology (GitHub and Metahistory).

Skills I have learned here could be applied outside of history, because we can observe and understand humans, society, and the world we live in, on a different level. We can look deeper into characteristics that shape both humans and society to gain a broader understanding. It can be applied to current events and policitial debates. So in my opinion I guess it not impossible to utilize the skills and material we have learned here into real life. Overall, I enjoyed and appreicate this course greatly. 
