One big difference I saw between quantitative and ‘regular’ history was their differing priorities concerning the things that drive historical events. For example when Goldstone’s ideas on ways to measure the potential for revolution, or what he called a ‘political stress indicator’, are discussed the broad issues of political solvency and elite competition are central, even as specific events are recognized as triggers. This seemed to me to be almost an inversion of the process used by ‘regular’ historians, who tend to focus on specific events even when context is taken into consideration. 

Yet, it reminded me of the Southgate reading from early in the course in which Lord Acton says that history forces people to detach their thoughts from their environment. For me, this solidified the idea that quantitative and ‘regular’ history are not fundamentally different, even though they do seem to differ on whether it is specific events or the context the occur within that is at the center of how history works. This fundamental difference is what drove the initial negative response Goldstone’s work received from historians. Yet, the pursuit of quantitative history has utilized small scale historical information like the size of the estates of elites and the skeletal irregularities of the malnourished which are the exact kinds of information ‘regular’ historians would use, the only real difference is that quantitative history seeks to find the mathematical patterns within this kind of information to establish trends and patterns over time. 

The predictions that the work of quantitative history generates are the biggest difference I found with ‘regular’ history. Historians have rejected using history to make predictions as postmodernism and postcolonialism have driven a movement to more focused history and work on microhistories has increased. However, the predictions based on historical events was reminiscent of the work of Machiavelli, who used historical study to better understand contemporary circumstances. Machiavelli reflected the Renaissance view that human behavior was the main driver of history, which seemed to fit pretty well with quantitative historians like Turchin who viewed human behavior like triggers that set off events predicated by large scale circumstances. 

The methods of quantitative history also reminded me of the Annales school and its focus on social history.
