Is quantitative history fundamentally different from ‘regular’ history?

Quantitative history, as I understand it, deals with contributing science with historical questions. As Margo Anderson explains it, “Quantitative history is the term for an array of skills and techniques used to apply the methods of statistical data analysis to the study of history. Sometimes also called cliometrics by economic historians, the term was popularized in the 1950s and 1960s as social, political and economic historians called for the development of a ‘social science history’, adopted methods from the social sciences, and applied them to historical problems. These historians also called for social scientists to historicize their research and consciously examine the temporal nature of the social phenomena they explored” (Anderson. 246). This idea is different from regular history because historians are trained to look at a historical question purley to answer the how, when, where, and why. But when looking at quantitative history, historians look at those same sub questions in terms of the economy and psychological aspects.

How does this suggestion problem solving through history conflict with uses of history as we’ve seen them so far in the course?

I think history shouldnt be analyzed in the same ways as science or economics. I think it's more helpful to look at history through the lenses of humanists and critical thinkers. In the article from Laura Spinney, she illustrates how historians, as I understand it, have to “rewire” their brains to look at history the same way a computer generates code. “Turchin’s approach to history, which uses software to find patterns in massive amounts of historical data, has only become possible recently, thanks to the growth in cheap computing power and the development of large historical datasets. This “big data” approach is now becoming increasingly popular in historical disciplines” (Spinney. 2019). We’ve looked at history through multiple lenses, such as Enlightenment thinkers, artists, and general historians. All these angles make it helpful and more useful because unlike quantitative history, these lenses look at history purley as history and not as data.
