## History as Data
While I do think that quantitative history is different than "regular" history, I'm not so sure that it is *fundamentally* different. While the methodological frameworks and paradigms with which they are practiced are certainly different, I think that they share the same overarching goals of discovery and progression. 

A few paragraphs in to reading Laura Spinney's article *History As A Giant Data Set* I had to stop and go back and check the date when it was published. I found myself thinking "oh man, if you only truly knew what 2020 will bring." The prophetic-ness of it all was sort of chilling, and I think that it made reading the article even more intriguing and almost relateable.

There were several things that popped into my mind while reading. In the beginning Spinney says, "Turchin believes, historical theories will be tested against large databases, and the ones that do not fit – many of them long-cherished – will be discarded. Our understanding of the past will converge on something approaching an objective truth." I may have missed the further discussion of this point, but I wish I had gotten more elaboration, particularly relating to the objective truth comment. **Just because you are using a non-traditional and more scientific, data-focused methodology to study history, how exactly does that equate to objectivity?** 

Linney mentions that critics of quantitative history have brought up the same questions, particularly in relation to the biases of the historians and record keepers and takers who put the information into the archives in the first place. 

I find it easy to understand where that sort of critique comes from, however, I also found myself really excited by this prospect of witnessing such a monumental shift in the way that the history is studied. One thing that I did not agree with Diarmaid MacCulloch's comment that "history is not science" or "that humans cannot be reduced to data points and equations." Sure, humans are complex beings that are unpredictable, but we are certainly also data points that provide historians, tech companies, and governements with a plethora of information about how we live. 

Throughout this class we have seen so many fluctuations between viewpoints regarding the "proper" way of practicing history throughout the ages. While there are certainly some practices which are more useful or more ethical than others, embracing "history as science" and "history as art" and "history as data," etc., etc., will provide us with more meaningful conversations and analyses of history moving forward. 
