# Quantitative History #

As we continue to evolve into a very virtual world, the study of history is going to change in ways that we didn’t think possible even 30 years ago. Although not a new occurrence, quantitative history analyzes the multiplicity of historical events and phenomena throughout *all* of human history. It is different from traditional history in that traditional/classical history relies on textual/archival evidence in the form of writing—so I thought of it as qualitative history.

The difference between quantitative and qualitative (traditional) history is that qualitative relies upon the existence of historiography—the writing of history—whereas quantitative history had to evolve into collection of data, compiling *consistent* data, and preparing that data. It is an interesting concept, to interpret historical significance from quantitative data like the US census but also, in the beginning of the Anderson reading, she brings up *all* presidential elections and the quantitative historical study of that phenomena. It was also interesting to think that this study of history came from the 1950s and 1960s, with the focus of social history, because although data collection is not a new concept at this time, I don’t think they could have expected the extent of data collection as it happens now in 2021. There’s no problem getting data now, in the 21st century, but I’m sure it was pretty difficult to get historical data in the mid-20th century.

The issue with quantitative history, regarding the uses of history as we’ve seen them so far in the course, is that the collection of this data seems to want to **answer** questions raised by history. In the Spinney article, they highlight this issue stating, “explaining why something happened once is very different from predicting how and when it will happen again.” This also states the difference in qualitative history and quantitative history, in that one explains *what* happened and the other explains *how* often this phenomenon occurs— but that’s. **it**, quantitative history **only** tells us as historians how often a phenomenon occurs, not whether it will happen again and what it will mean. I don’t think quantitative history should be used to essentially “predict the future.” 

There is no issue in collecting data to study and interpret patterns—it’s why we maintain the records of elections, pandemics/epidemics, etc.—but it cannot be used to predict the future. In the Spinney article, she brings up the mathematician Peter Turchin who believes that quantitative data can be used to draw conclusions from patterns in a way that can help solve future problems. This is something I can agree with because it’s what I believe traditional historians already do, which is why we have so many historical cases used as basis for the establishment of certain laws or amendments, but where Turchin loses me is his belief that “historical theories will be tested against large databases, and the ones that do not fit… will be discarded.”

How about no? I think it’s a disturbing thought to say that putting something qualitative (like traditional history theory) up against databases would lead to those qualitative studies being discarded… that’s not an age of technological advance I want to live in, I don’t think many historians would appreciate that mode of research. Maybe I’m wrong, or too much of a historical purist in that textual/archival collection is still a valid and long-standing tradition to be lost to technological advance like quantitative history, or maybe I’m interpreting this incorrectly. But even if you were to put postmodern historical theory against large databases of quantitative history, it wouldn’t be discarded (and I feel postmodern historical theory is always on the verge of being discarded). There is value in every form of historical research, that is why history continues to thrive, and quantitative history will continue to thrive in the continuously evolving space of media and technology, but I don’t think it will beat out traditional history.

*Questions for class:*

Some of my other classmates have brought it up, but how would postmodern theorists feel about quantitative history? How do we think postmodern theory would fare against quantitative history? Would it support, discredit, or further convolute postmodern theory?

How will quantitative history come to play in political science’s relationship with history? Jeremy asked if quantitative history is just a numbers game—and I agree with that statement in a way, because quantitative history is a collection of numbers, but where does it play into contemporary life?
