Quantitative history appears to be basically the same as “regular” history, but on a grander scale. While “regular” historical investigation entails analysis of sources and tuning of theoretical models, quantitative history is about the analysis of large amounts of data gleaned from sources (whether textual, archaeological, ecological, or climatic) and data-crunching to fine tune mathematical models. The two approaches are very similar. 

However, removing the data from the context of the sources does lead to problems with amplification of the original bias of the gatherers of the source or proxies, as mentioned in the article. And while it is true that analysis of large amounts of data could enable historians to discern a signal from the noise, there is no guarantee that the signal was not placed there inadvertently by those that transferred the data from non-digitized sources to electronic databases, or an artifact of the proxy or sources in question. An example mentioned in the article is whether newspapers reported on all lynchings. Undoubtedly they did not, which leaves the dataset of lynching gleaned from newspapers lacking in substance. Perhaps the newspapers only reported public lynchings that could not be swept under the rug, or only reported lynchings in populated areas, leaving more rural data lost by the whims of reporters.

These points being said, there is clearly a benefit to large dataset analysis, especially when combined with proxies for historical data outside of traditional history sources. Climatic data (ice cores that preserve pollution, tree rings that tell of drought years, geological scarring from flood events, etc.) can be especially useful in this regard.

For example, the 2019 paper *Geo-cultural Time: Advancing Human Societal Complexity Within Worldwide Constraint Bottlenecks - A Chronological/Helical Approach to Understanding Human-Planetary Interactions* (doi:10.1007/s41247-019-0058-7) utilizes historical sources, archeological finds and climate proxies to advance the idea that Mayan cultures experienced cyclical (or, rather helical) forcings that drove them between low and high energy use and coherence civilization modes. In the Classical Period (200-900 CE) Mayan cultures were centered around lowland, interior city states dependent on water-management. Thanks to neutron activation analysis, artifacts are able to be not just precisely dated but tracked from their point of origin to their final resting places. This was combined with pollen indicators that showed forest and soil health along with climate models to produce three general patterns of development: pattern one being the rise and fall of interior cities with soil and forest depletion, pattern two the rise of coastal communities with the development of maritime technology and more sustainable food production, and pattern three being a shift of economic and political power from the east coast of the peninsula to the west coast. Pattern one is associated with huge amounts of complexity and effort in maintaining water management facilities, making it a high-energy gradient mode. Pattern two is far more energy-efficient thanks to increasing maritime transportation and less stress on soil and forest health. Pattern three is considered a high information-coherence mode and had greater economic and military cooperation between Mayan cities on the west coast and the dominant political power of central Mexico.

These three patterns “reflect the utilization of energy resources as influenced by ecosystem productivity levels (eg., coast vs island) and technological and social developments to utilize energy sources (development of maritime trade).” There are cyclicities to the system that are dependant on environmental as well as technological variables. These cyclities are not simple generational cycles, but revolve around geo-cultural “attractors” that appear to be like potential energy wells, which an inputted activation energy is required to disturb. The Mayan cultures proceeded from a low-energy demanding, low-information-coherence society (a hunter-gatherer society) through a low-energy, high-coherence society (maritime coastal trading network). But the pattern was sidetracked into an unsustainable high-energy demanding society, one requiring the maintenance of complex water management systems. It is theorized that it is ultimately climatic forcings that cause modality change, such as droughts.

All of this is increasingly relevant to modern civilization, as we appear to be approaching a level of civilizational complexity that is running-up against hard biophysical limits, such as resource levels, soil health and desertification, deforestation, and myriad other environmental concerns arising from increasing greenhouse gas accumulation in the atmosphere, a confluence of phenomena that will put greater and greater strain on a global human civilization that has never been so complex and interconnected.

WHat does this mean for quantitative history? It's clear that utilizing large datasets to determine mathematical models for the evolution of human societies is a useful endeavor in spite of criticisms of history as "not a science." A historian can never really know if a source accurately reflects a historical reality, but by applying historical investigation and methologies to large amounts of historical data, we can at least approach some semblance of a predictive, mathematically-grounded science to understand human societies, and perhaps in the future test our theories by running generation simulations of those societies in a digitized world.
