## Quantitative History Reading Reflection
I would say that quantitative history is fundamentally different from regular or traditional conceptions of history. As far as I understand it, quantitative history seeks to apply mathematical and statistical modeling techniques and methods in order to explain or even predict the occurrence of historical phenomena. Traditional history does not use this methodology as it seeks to not only learn about what truly happened in the past, but to find reliable sources documenting these events and to assess or anylyze them critically in order to extract from them information and understanding of the phenomena that are historical figures and events.

The two are fundamentally different, even though though they both try to understand the historical past, as well as the motivations and actions of individual historical figures and the occurrences of historical events. This is because of the differing methodologies between the two. Traditional history seeks to do this via the analysis of documents and sources which give insight into  historical figures, their motivations, and their actions, as well as into historical events as causal results of the social, economic, political, religious or military forces around them. Quantitative history, on the other hand, seeks to do this by quantifying (hence "quantitative") historical phenomena such as figures and events in order to construct from them mathematical and statistical models from which historical understanding comes about through the analysis of these models.

Going back to one of the first readings of the class, quantitative history conflicts with a few of the uses or professed purposes of doing history. On such use is "cultivation". Cultivation seeks to have us become more intimately acquainted with the possibilities which are opened up to us when we understand human thought and action, so as to "progress" our civilization through that knowledge. Quantitative history keeps this from happening as it takes much of the human variability out of attempts to understand the past in favor of statistical and correlative modeling. 

Another use it conflicts with is that of questions of theological confirmation. Theologians have often used history in order to appeal to the authorities of their faith in order to confirm their beliefs. Quantitative historians have no interest in historical appeals to authority for the sake of theological confirmation and theologians typically have no interest in statistical modeling in order to understand historical phenomena.

The final conflict that quantitative history has with the professed uses of history are those of honoring our obligations to the dead. For many, we have an obligation to remember the deeds of those who came before us. These deeds are immortalized through written historical records. This conflicts with quantitative history again, because quantitative history reduces the role of humanness in historical phenomena. There is no remembering the deeds of the dead in quantitative history for its own sake, but only for the sake of transferring them into statistical models for analysis.

### Questions

Can quantitative history ever replace traditional history even as the world, through technology, ever-increasingly relies on mathematical calculations for understanding and problem solving?

Can history fully be translated into analytical statistical models in order to understand or even predict historical phenomena, or is the nature of human action too unpredictable to do this reliably?