I would characterize Renaissance history as increasingly focused on historical explanations for contemporary events. From Machiavelli’s extrapolation of political lessons from past events to the Reformation’s propensity for revisionism, most historical writing had shifted away from the medieval idea that the world was unchanging. Still, the historical writing of the Renaissance was divided between those pursued history as an art and those who approached it as a science. The way antiquarianism in the Renaissance helped to shape historical thought was the most interesting idea in this week’s readings for me. I was fascinated by how developments in the authentication of potential artifacts from antiquity spurred on an approach to history that was more focused on critical analysis and emphasized primary sources. 

This is reflected in Sleidan’s dedication to eyewitnesses and first-hand accounts of events as the only true historical proof. I found an interesting connection to the idea that Sleidan’s methods were driven by his desire to vicariously experience the past, as the Reformation led to the formation of several Protestant groups that held conversion experiences at the center of their religious practice. The concept of history as means of authentication is also present in Bacon’s idea that facts must be taken on their own without forcing one’s own ideas onto them. All of these things show the how focused history in the Renaissance was with human behavior and how it impacts history, which I believe was the key development in history writing during this period. This would seem to contrast with the Reformation era tendency toward revisionism and the development with Protestant origin stories, yet the Protestant shaping of history to “convict the Roman hierarchy” seems to parallel Machiavelli’s use of subjective historical narratives. 

The excerpt from Machiavelli’s The Prince illustrates the Renaissance era focus on human behavior as the driving force of historical events. This understanding allowed Machiavelli to use past events as a basis for drawing broad political lessons that could be applied to contemporary situations. He is able to use the past to understand the present more thoroughly by providing historical parallels to the present like the Roman conquest of Greece in antiquity to the contemporary French invasions of Italy. 
