History at the time of the Rennasaince could be described as revolutionary. This is because it marked massive societal shifts such as importance of religion. Previously, Historical Wiritings were far more based around concepts of dietys and religion.  The same historical ideals continued however, such as that principle of a town or king having its “claim to fame” continued. In earlier histories such as chronicles people would often claim to be descendants of gods, or dieties having some divine intervention to create a special society; while Rennasaince histories made their claim to being founded by Ceasar, or claiming various connections to the Roman Empire.  

An important development in Renassaince history writing is the Reformation. This is because as a historical event it represented the ability of one to question society. As Martin Luther posted his 95 Thesis, he was questioning one of the most important and influential institutions that has ever existed. This clearly had deeper implications as people were now considering the nature of society, politics, and religion. This questioning of society clearly lead to Enlightenment ideas as thinkers were now willing to question societal, governmental, and social structures. With these changing views came the ability to show tolerance towards other nations as well as religions. With a vast new expanse of viewpoints it became far more difficult to simply accpet tradition, which lead to the first concepts of histiography in which one would critique history and attempt to qualify it.  

Machiavelli’s The Prince illustrates the importance of policial manuevering in Rennasaince society. His writings stand to serve as a tacitical analysis of ruling a society, as well as their relationships to one another. In doing so he in a way weaponizes history by thinking about the roots and origins of nations. With his tactics ordered logically with his claim followed by historical evidence acted as support, Machiavelli disects ways in which people respond to governing powers. Throughout the descriptions of pincipalities and discussion of nations, Machiavelli does an incredible job in pointing out various examples from history of certain occurrences. One that particularly stood out was how the Greek resisted the Roman Empire as their memory of city states remained. In Relating this to the smaller European nations he explained ideas of poltical domminence. 

1) How does a change in societal norms lead to a change in the writing of history? 

2) Does understanding history allow us to accurately predict historical events?  
  