1. Reading Reflection
How would you characterize history writing during the Renaissance?

I think the main thing that we can see that happened with regards to writing during the Renaissance as Cheng put it “This movement did mark an important shift of emphasis away from a world-view centered on the church, in favor of a more humanistic and secular perspective. (Cheng,5) Cheng also goes on the explain how there was also a revived interest in what was considered ancient History of the Greek and Roman civilizations and how there was a strong desire to return to that age of superiority and greatness compared to the era they were living in. I thought it was pretty interesting how thinkers of that time were beginning to make a greater distinction between their time and the times of the Greeks and Romans and how the past felt very “alien” to them which was also a reason that they were fascinated by it. I was really taken by this idea of recognizing how different the past can look compared to the era you are living in. This is one of the reasons that I have been drawn to certain times in History as well. Last, I think that Cheng made a great point that the “Renaissance thinkers showed a greater acceptance of the possibility-and desirability- of change and newness” (Cheng,6) The thinkers were not ok with the status quo set by the church and state and were willing to take embrace change and in fact welcomed it. 

2. How does the excerpt from The Prince illustrate what’s changing in terms of how History is being used in Renaissance Europe (esp Florence)?
	
  I think that the excerpts from The Prince show how Renaissance writers were changing in how they viewed History especially in their own time. This is where we can look at what’s happening in Florence with writers like Francisco Guicciardini who viewed Florence as just getting out of a Golden Age.  “In his effort to explain the invasions that helped bring about an end to Florence’s golden age, Guicciardini pointed out yet another trait that differentiated Renaissance from medieval historical writing its greater concern with historical explanations.” (Cheng,7) This is a definitely a departure that is also seen in the Machiavelli excerpts that we read as well where we see not only a description of principalities but also how to hold on to them and how they are acquired. Cheng also further elaborates on the idea of fortune and how Renaissance thinkers and writers were no longer ascribing it to divine intervention but “as secular force that was subject to human influence.” (Cheng,7) This is definitely a departure from how writers had thought of Fortune in the past and  that human beings can influence and cause events to happen and to be able to protect themselves from its sometimes-destructive forces. 

Questions 

With regards to the scientific revolution and the splitting of the church into other factions that were not Catholic did the Catholic church or countries that were Catholic accept the findings of Sir Isaac Newton who was not Catholic? 
