# Early Modern Historiography

The Renaissance was a time of **humanistic** approach rather than the **religious** approach to… well, pretty much everything; from culture to politics. The Reformation solidified that break from religious focus on literature and moved to a much more secular and diverse world, one that did not exist in written academia during Medieval times. 

There is a central theme of historical writing being a vehicle for “political and moral instructions” (Francesco Petrarch, Giovanni Villani, Niccolò Machiavelli, Francesco Guicciardini, etc.). During the Renaissance there was a higher importance on writing being an important tool used during the Renaissance where historians were writing *what* happened, what caused *it* to happen, and included developments (culture, technological, social, etc.) that were not mentioned before. 

Another important progression of historical writing from the Renaissance was the creation of the **chronicle**, which although still alluding to the divine and supernatural (antiquity writing) at times, also had a humanistic focus to document what happened without adding flare. In my opinion, this was where the distinct break between Greco-Roman history and Renaissance history takes place because historians are moving away from mythical or “divine” writing and being more critical of what they are writing and how. Especially when it comes to what, or who, they’re writing about… I’m looking at you, Martin Luther and your 95 Theses (supposedly) being the “start” of Reformation.

Niccolò Machiavelli’s *The Prince* illustrated that history during the Renaissance was being used as a sort of guidebook on how to rule. In one of the Metahistory essays, Niccolò Machiavelli is stated to have believed that he knew “studying history was beneficial for law and medicine” so that same respect should be given to learning from the past and “applying that knowledge to contemporary policy and action.” I think this attitude still exists today, seeing how the phrase, “Those who don’t learn from history are doomed to repeat it,” is permanently etched into a historian’s brain. Still Machiavelli’s The Prince was his almost his opinion piece, with historical fact to back that opinion; and although Machiavelli isn’t one of my favorite historical figures, he knew what he was talking about having held a government position that dealt with militia and power.

Some questions that I have are: 
- How much of the cyclical view of history from Greco-Roman history is still prevalent in Renaissance historical writing and studies? 
- Do we still believe history to be a subject for the rich? Or is accessibility to history becoming as diverse as the subject they write about?
