Renaissance historical writings grew to become more concerned with the material and secular. More often the point of history was seen as practical work to explain the course of events and offer analysis useful for contemporaries to utilize in law and politics. Historians became more concerned with the broader causal and material explanations for historical events rather than simply attributing them to divine intervention or the actions of individuals. This manifested as a harkening back to the Classical world, particularly Rome and Greece, as the pinnacle of civilization and something for the people and political states of the Renaissance to aspire to return to. This tendency to examine the Classical world and generalize lessons learned there to contemporary political issues is most conspicuous in Italian Renaissance works such as Machiavelli’s "The Prince."

Because of this more practical orientation for the writing of history, the historical profession grew in prestige, leading to more writings and more historical investigation in realms outside of history such as law. This in turn led to the rise in antiquarianism and philology - realms initially regarded as separate from history but gradually incorporated into historical writings, particularly by John Selden. This broadened the scope of historical investigation to encompass non-textual sources, contributing to the rise in the idea of history as the search for fact and truth and increasing emphasis on verifiable primary sources over secondary sources and the work of older historians.

The Renaissance also experienced disparate historical movements concerning the influence of religion. Writers like Bodin explicitly separated history into that of the human, the natural, and the divine, breaking with past theological interpretations of the course of history, particularly the ideas of the Four Empires and Golden Ages. William Bradford, on the other hand, saw the influence of Providence working through secular agents. His appreciation for what he saw as the hand of God in human events pushed him to examine historical circumstances critically, utilizing primary sources from many different perspectives to piece together this divine influence by understanding the secular causes.

How did the (re)discovery of the New World influence grand historical narratives preoccupied with the primacy of European civilization? How did the explosion of new trade routes to the Orient influence the exchange of historical narratives between the West and East?
