## Early Modern Historiography Reading reflection

*How would you characterize history writing during the Renaissance?* I would characterize it threefold. 

First, I would characterize it as being primarily focused on the human causes of historical events, and the very human consequences of those events, rather than attempting to understand those events in a *religious* context. 

Second, I would characterize history writing at this time two have evolved into focusing, in part, on the accessibility of written histories. I say "evolved" in this manner because I don't get the impression that this was an attitude which existed from the outset of the Renaissance, but rather, one that evolved as a later development as a result of the Reformation. This is because of what I would call a sense of skepticism of authority brewing in intellectuals at the time. Just as Luther made the Bible more accessible to the masses by translating it, so too did the historians make written histories more accessible via humanist approaches, thereby allowing the masses to bonder deeper questions about the causes and consequences of documented historical events. 

Finally, I would characterize it as divided. For example, you have Machiavelli, who used history and the writing of history in an attempt to answer more __normative__ questions, i.e., *how can the political consequences of the past inform us on how we should make future political decisions?*. By contrast, you have the likes of Giuccardini, who used history and the writing of history in an attempt to answer __positive__ and more individualized questions, i.e., *how did the actions of the leaders of the past influence historical events, and in what specific positions were these leaders in that enabled them to have such influence?* These questions have no concern of *what should be done*, but rather with *what has been done and why*.

*How does the excerpt from The Prince illustrate what’s changing in terms of how history is being used in Renaissance Europe (esp Florence)?* *The Prince* shows that for at least Machiavelli at this time, there is this attitude that decisions of the past can inform us of our political decisions of the future. Florence at this time was governed by a republic of sorts, and as such leaders were changing much more often than they likely would have been, had florence been a monarchy similar to other states of the time. Because of this, these leaders surely would have had differing policies and approaches to solving political problems. *The Prince*, for this reason, can be seen as an attempt to find out if history can reveal to us any tried-and-true approaches to governance so as to make the right decision when approaching political problems and conflicts.