# Characterizing Historical Writing During the Renaissance  

Characterizing historical writing during the Renaissance can be described as the development of humanistic and secular approaches, and the “the transformation of how scholars approach the study of history and the critical methods that define history as a discipline” (Cheng, pg. 9).   

The developments in the treatment of Renaissance history illustrates the “desire to reflect broadly on the theory of history, discussing such issues as the purpose and form of history and offering principles of historical criticism and analysis” Cheng, pg. 10).  

Historical writers began to focus on cultural change to explain causation of human actions, the tangible human causes and the influence the free world has on the issues rather than looking to the intangible, and how information from sources and documents should be systematically and critically analyzed. However, most "Renaissance thinkers still sought to recover and hold on to a past that seemed increasingly distant from them, and this changed the nature of interest" (Cheng, pg. 6).    

The great changes that took place in the treatment of historical writing during the Renaissance was to define it as either a science or an art. History had been treated as "an artistic branch of rhetoric and literature, serving as political narrative with the goal of offering lessons of the past for the present", it "focused on style and form rather than scholarship and research" (Cheng, pg. 9).  

With the change in treatment “history was viewed as a science that is based in systematic and empirical analysis of the past” (Cheng, pg. 9).The systematic critical analysis granted greater “appreciation of the historical value of non-textual sources and contributed to a more critical way of viewing those sources", which led to the application of documentary sources”, and "critical analysis of primary sources" (Cheng, pg.9-10).   

This change in interest divided historical schools of thought, separating the ecclesiastical, the literary, and civil. It opened the field of history to different avenues. Machiavelli, A Renaissance historical writer, believed the study of history was essential for political science and for making effective policy which illustrates the transformation in Renaissance Europe in Florentine historiography. He “knew that other fields of learning such as law and medicine had benefitted from knowledge of history, politics should be no different” (Whitacre, Madeline, Renaissance Historiography).  

His writing shaped and developed new outlooks and "preserved the memory of notable events, both political and non-political, especially those they had themselves witnessed" (Arellano, Nicholas, Niccolò Machiavell)(Phillips, 86). This is the application of documentary sources. Drawing from his life experiences in Florence, "he discussed the problem of contention between classes, and from this discussion he drew large conclusions, which he saw as being applicable to all politics" (Whitacre, Madeline, Renaissance Historiography). His political and social questions are subjective narratives which demonstrated humanistic views along with chronicled sources. To explain historical events, he used Fortune to refer to impersonal secular forces. Fortune was a secular force that revealed limits of human control and was subject to human influences. He "revealed the more secular character of Renaissance historical explanations in their emphasis on material and human forces" (Cheng, pg.8). 

Separating schools of thought allowed "history broader ranges of cultural changes and shifting away from the Church", turning towards more humanistic and secular analysis (Cheng, pg.5). This transformation allotted historians to “examine wider range of causes beyond attributing events to individuals or God, devoting much more attention to the complex relationship between them” (Whitacre, Madeline, Renaissance Historiography). All distinguishing characteristics of historical writing during the Renaissance. 
